 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1997 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-666-X Price: US$76.00 (US$38.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org Internet: http://www.imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 8,1997 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1997, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definition of Acronyms Introduction Page ix xi 1 Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of. Costa Rica Coted'Ivoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Page 4 8 12 19 26 30 35 39 42 47 51 55 62 65 74 79 86 90 95 100 104 108 113 119 132 136 142 148 154 158 164 168 174 180 187 196 204 ,. 210 215 221 V Page 227 230 237 242 252 257 260 263 269 274 279 284 287 292 297 300 307 313 316 320 326 330 334 338 344 348 353 357 362 366 370 373 378 382 388 392 403 411 416 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait.... Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia ..1......... Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Page 424 432 436 440 445 450 455 459 461 470 474 478 483 487 491 496 499 505 509 512 517 522 527 534 537 542 548 551 556 560 566 569 575 579 588 594 600 608 613 616 620 623 : 627 633 639 643 646 Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis... St. Lucia...... St. Vincent and the Grenadines San Marino S§o Tome" and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Page 653 657 662 666 670 677 685 688 691 697 705 711 715 720 725 728 733 737 744 748 754 758 764 770 775 780 788 793 799 804 810 815 818 821 830 834 839 845 851 855 859 868 875 879 884 889 893 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of CONTENTS Page 897 902 906 911 914 919 923 928 Zambia Zimbabwe for Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Appendix II: Country Table Matrix vii Page 932 936 946 953 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published an- nually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. This report presents the information in a new tabular format and expands the coverage on the regulations on capital transactions. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department by a staff team di- rected by R. Barry Johnston and coordinated by Susana Crossa de Sosa, comprising Alexander Kyei, Dmitri Menchikov, Virgilio A. Sandoval, Fabienne Piccinni, and Gregory S. Taft. It draws on the special- ized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's six area departments, together with staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre and Martha Bonilla of the External Relations Department, and was produced by Ms. Piccinni and the IMF Graphics Section. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters. DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS ACP ACU ATC BCEAO BEAC CEEAC CEFTA CEPGL CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA BLEU CACM CAP CARICOM Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Union (integrated by Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary un it ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of South East Asian Nations (integrated by Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and Clothing Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des £tats de 1'Afrique de 1'ouest). (The West African States are Benin, Burk ina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.) Bank of Central African States (Banque des etats de 1'Afrique centrale). (The Central African States are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon.) Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union Central American Common Market (integrated by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Common Market (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Monster, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago) Economic Community of Central African States Central European free trade area Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common effective preferential tariff of the ASEAN free trade zone Common external tariff Communaute fmanciere africaine Commonwealth of Independent States Common monetary area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Carribean Multilateral Clearing Facility Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved) (Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Vietnam) Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls Common market for Eastern and Southern Pacific Consumer Price Index Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Community of West African States (Cedeao) European Coal and Steel Community European currency un it European economic area European Free Trade Association European monetary system Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Un ion (formerly European Community), (integrated by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom) Former Soviet Un ion General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gu lf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gu lf) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) Generalized system of preferences Harmonized commodity description and coding system International Bank for Economic Cooperation Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela) ECLAC ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEA EFTA EMS ERM EU COCOM COMESA CPI ECCB FSU GATT GCC GSP HCDCS IBEC LAIA XI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution X ll DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS OGL OPEC PTA SACU SADC SDR SIBOR SPARTECA LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) MFA Multifiber Arrangement MFN Most favored nation MTN Multilateral trade negotiations NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECS Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Preferential trade area for Eastern and Southern African states Southern African Customs Union (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Commun i ty (integrated by Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special drawing rights Singapore Interbank Offered Rate South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa) Union of account of the PTA Central African Customs and Economic Union United Nations National Union for the Total Independence of Angola Value-added tax West African Clearing House West African Economic Community (CEAO) (dissolved) West African Economic and Monetary Union (formerly WAMU, integrated by Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) World Trade Organization (supersedes GATT) UAPTA UDEAC UN UNITA VAT WACH WAEC WAEMU WTO X ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION Exchange Arrangement provides the description of the exchange arrangement that a member country has furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section The report provides a detailed description of the ex- change arrangements and exchange restrictions of individual member countries, including Hong Kong, China, for which the United Kingdom had accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement,1 and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1996, but in appropriate cases, reference is made to significant develop- ments that took place in early 1997. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 1996 and early 1997. The report is presented in a new tabular format that en- hances transparency and the uniformity of treatment of the information among countries and also expands the coverage on the regulatory framework for capital movements. The information is drawn from a new exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database established by the IMF. The following country tables present an abstract of the relevant information available to the IMF. The table on Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frame- works for Current and Capital Transactions in Members Countries (Appendix I) provides an overview of the charac- teristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. A country table matrix (Appendix II) provides a listing of the possible entries in this database. In cases where the information in an entire section is not available at the time of publication, this is noted by "n.a." When information in a particular category within a section is not available at the time of publication, the category is not included in the table. When information is available on all but a particular item or items within a category, these are displayed with a note to that effect (i.e., n.a.). The tabular presentation is organized as follows: Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement indicates whether the member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement or whether the country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. 1 During the 996/97 financial year, Hong Kong was admin- istered by the United. Kingdom. It was returned to the Peo- ple's Republic of China as of Ju ly 1, 1997, and became a special administrative region of China. 2 INTRODUCTION documentation requirements for the release of foreign ex- change for the payment of imports, such as the obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified financial institution, a preshipment inspection aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of volume, quality, and price, the obligation to pay by means of a letter of credit, and the need to submit an import license to obtain the foreign exchange. Import licenses and other nontariff measures uses the following terms to describe the licensing system, if any: (1) Positive list refers to a list in which goods that can be imported are listed; (2) Negative list refers to a list in which goods whose importation is prohibited are listed; (3) Open general licenses indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing re- quirements; (4) Licenses with quotas refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific limit is imposed on the amount to be imported; and (5) Other nontariff measures may include the prohibition to import a certain good or all goods from a certain country. Also, this section provides a brief description of the import tax/tariff system, specifying these revenues are collected through the exchange system, and providing information on whether state monopolies for the importation of certain goods exist. Exports and Export Proceeds identifies restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as well as regulations on exports such as financing and documentation requirements (including letters of credit, the provision of guarantees, domiciliation, preshipment inspection, licensing require- ments, and taxes levied —in particular through the exchange system—on exports). Repatriation requirements refers to the obligation of exporters to bring into the country export pro- ceeds either by selling them in the foreign exchange market or depositing them in authorized accounts. Surrender re- quirements refers to regulations requiring the recipient of export proceeds to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers describes the procedures for effecting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative and indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Detailed infor- mation on the most common categories of transactions is provided when regulations d i f fer for the various categories. Indicative limit establishes max imum amounts up to wh ich the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the purpose of the transaction, mainly for statistical pur- poses. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by the presenta- tion of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also may be applied for transactions for which quantitative limits have not been established. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers gives all regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in invisibles as well as a descrip- tion of any limitations on the conversion into domestic cur- rency and the use of those receipts. The concepts of repatria- tion and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain bank accounts. Capital Transactions describes regulations influencing capital movements. The concepts of controls and capital transactions are interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital movements include prohibitions; need for prior approvals, authorizations, and notifications; multiple currency practices; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the con- clusion or execution of transactions or transfers with respect to both inward and outward capital flows or the holding of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations would apply to receipts as well as payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. Moreover, because of their close association with capital movements, information is also provided on local financial operations conducted in foreign currency. Under capital transactions, Capital and money market instruments refers to the public offering or private placement on a primary market or listing for offering on a secondary market. Capital market securities refers to shares and other securities of a participatory nature, and bonds and other se- curities with original maturity above one year. Money market instruments refers to securities of an original maturity of one year or less and includes short-term instruments such as treasury bills, certificates of deposit, and bills of exchange. Collective investment securities includes share certifi- cates and registry entries or other evidence of investor inter- est in an institution for collective investment, such as mutual funds, and unit and investment trusts. Derivatives and other instruments refers to operations in other negotiable instruments and nonsecuritized claims not covered under the above subsections. These may include operations in rights; warrants; financial options and futures; secondary market operations in other financial claims (including sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable instruments originating as loans, receiv- ables, and discounted bills of trade); forward operations (including those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign currency, as well as swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Credit operations is subdivided into commercial credits covering operations directly linked with international trade transactions or with the rendering of international services; financial credits, which are credits other than commercial credits; guarantees and sureties, including securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract, such as warrants or avals, performance bonds, and stand-by letters of credit; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION 3 and financial backup facilities, which cover credit facilities used as a guarantee for independent financial operations. Direct investment refers to investment for the purpose of establishing lasting economic relations, essentially for the purpose of producing goods and services, and, in particular, investments that allow investor participation in their man- agement. It includes the creation or extension of a wholly owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the acquisition of fu ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective influence over the operations of this enterprise. Liquidation of direct investment refers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains, of a direct investment as defined above. Real estate transactions refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct investment. It would in- clude, for example, investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary and prudential controls, inc lud ing reserve requirements; liquid asset requirements; interest rate regulations; credit controls; and open foreign exchange position limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors describes controls specific to institutions such as insurance companies and pension funds, and may include, for example, controls on the proportion of the institutions' portfolios that may be held in local or foreign assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws refers to additional regulations on capital movements imposed by those laws, such as restrictions on the listing of foreign securities on local security markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Two types of Afghanis are in circulation; that which circulates in the north is illegal in Kabul and other areas under Taliban control. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) (the central bank) maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to no more than 10% of convertible currency transactions including a few transactions of the central government (mainly debt-service payments) and certain foreign currency income earned in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Almost all other official transactions are conducted at a commercial rate set by the government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. In the north, the free market exchange rate is about Af 75,000 per $1, and in other areas, it is about Af 25,000 per $1. The exchange rate applied to transactions of international organizations is set at 80% of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the floating commercial market rate. The DAB posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistani rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries w i th which the Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilat- eral payments agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. The Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Russia, and the Slovak Republic. Some of these have been inactive for several years and others are being phased out. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No restrictions apply to transactions in the free exchange market. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 5 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bu l- lion, silver, and jewelry require permission from the DAB and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and other articles containing m inor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on im- ports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins, n.a. Travelers may b r ing in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers entering the Islamic State of Afghanistan are required to spend a m i n im um of the equ iva lent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may br ing in any amount of for- eign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above m in imum conversion requirement. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both pub l ic and private sector imports. Adjustments in the pub l ic sector import plan are made as circumstances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is ind ica t ive. n.a. n.a. Payments for imports through the banking system to countries with wh ich the Islamic State of Afghanistan has payments agreements may usua l ly be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against b i l ls for collection, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods of at least equ iva lent va lue to the payment made through the bank ing system. Except for p u b l ic sector imports under the government budget, all importers are requ i red to lodge m in i- mum import deposits with banks when they open letters of credit. The deposit ratios, based on the c .i .f. va lue of imports, are 20% for essential products and range from 30% to 60% for other products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for com- modities to be traded. The importation of certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition is prohibited on grounds of pub l ic policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods is also prohibited. n.a. There are no quantitative restrictions on most imports, but tariff rates on most consumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar ac- counts with the DAB. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the origi- nal exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign cur- rency account with a bank in the Islamic State of Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from exports of raisins, fresh fruits, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, me- dicinal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Export transactions must be registered. The exportation of op ium and museum pieces is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries. W i thout quotas Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Foreign exchange for most private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $1 and 1% of hard currency for permits that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. Yes. The l im it for tourist travel is $1,000, except for private travel to India, for which the l im it is the equ iva lent of $700. The l im it for business travel is $15,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits For medical treatment, the central bank levies a commission of Af 0.75 per $1. Yes. Normally, the DAB grants $2,500 for medical treatment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 7 Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Foreign employees wo rk ing in the Afghan pub l ic and private sectors must convert 60% of the ir foreign currency salaries into Afghanis at the official rate. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Inward direct investment Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Investment Committee. The law stipulates that foreign investment in the Islamic State of Afghanistan can take place only through jo int ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49%, and that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further li- cense in order to operate in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law No. 1353 (1974) includes the fo l low ing provisions: (1) income tax exemption for 4 years (6 years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on d iv idends for 4 years after the first d is tr ibu t ion of d iv i- dends, but not more than 7 years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among the prohib- ited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law as long as the prices are not more than 15% h igher than those of foreign suppliers. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Capital may be repatriated after 5 years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of the total registered capital. Changes During 1995-96 [The IMF has not received from the authorities the information required for a descrip- tion of the exchange and trade system as of December 1995 and December 1996.] ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the lek. In special cases and with prior approval from the Bank of Albania (BOA), foreign ex- change may serve as a means of payment. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supply and demand for for- eign exchange. The BOA calculates and announces the daily average exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 22 other ma jor currencies. No margins are set between buy ing and selling rates for the off ic ial exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.2% to 2%, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payment for all merchandise trade is made in convertible currencies. All transactions under bilateral payment agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pend ing the outcome of negotiations. Albania maintains bilateral payment agreements in nonconvertible currencies with Bul- garia, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, and Vietnam. Albania also maintains bilateral payment agreements in convertible currencies with Algeria, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, Vietnam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Regional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts A lban ia ma in ta ins a clearing agreement with Malaysia. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The BOA is vested with the powers to administer exchange controls. The BOA may (1) authorize foreign exchange operations and allow securities banks to conduct foreign exchange operations; (2) def ine the limits of the ir activities; and (3) supervise foreign exchange operations to prevent any participant from dominating the market. It monitors licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus and dealers to ensure that their operations comply with foreign exchange regulations. There is a reporting requirement on banks and exchange dealers for transactions above $15,000 or its equivalent at the exchange rate prevailing on the date the transaction is effected. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 9 Payment arrears Official Albania has arrears on debts with China, Turkey, Greece, and with a number of com- mercial creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Natural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in banknotes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign visitors may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount brought into the country. Natural or jur id ical persons are not allowed to export amounts larger than $15,000 or its equivalent. Natural and jur id ical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic banknotes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Natural and jur id ical persons are allowed to import foreign currency up to $15,000 or its equivalent in any other currency. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Approval is required, but a commercial bank may, on its own account or on behalf of a third party, open and hold balances with other banks as well as other financial institu- tions abroad w i thout prior approval from the BOA. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALBANIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Letters of credit should be used for the payment of imports in excess of $200,000 or its equivalent. Licenses are required for payments of imports equal to or larger than $5,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are five tariff rates: zero, 5%, 10%, 20%, and 30%, which are applied to the c.i.f. value. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Yes. No. No. No. There are export bans on unprocessed wood and metal scrap. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments, but supporting documents for transactions exceeding $5,000 are required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Yes. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Purchases of these instruments abroad by residents require prior approval of the BOA. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 11 Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the pr ior approval of the BOA. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Commercial banks may not, w i thout prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except banks and other financial institutions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to prior approval of the BOA. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may not, w i thout pr ior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except to banks and other financial institutions. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Authorized banks must maintain 90% cover on the foreign deposits placed w i th them. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 8% of the banks' capital. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Managed floating The external value of the dinar is set at the interbank foreign exchange market. No margin l im i ts are imposed on buying and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a margin of DA 0.017 has been established between the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria (BOA) for the dinar against the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may provide forward cover to residents, but this has not taken place. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which no payments agreements are in force are made in convertible currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are made through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tunisian dinar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general jurisdiction over exchange controls. Authority for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to 7 commercial banks and the Postal Administration. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes. Unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nation- ale pour la distribution et la transformation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR); this agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metals. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 13 Controls on external trade AGENOR is authorized to import and export any precious metals, including gold. Gold used by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may reexport any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Resident travelers can export foreign currency withdrawn from their foreign cur- rency accounts up to the equivalent of F 50,000 a trip. (The number of trips a year is unlimited .) Resident travelers may reimport up to DA 200 a person. Nonresidents are not permitted to bring in Algerian dinar banknotes. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes, but residents and non- residents must declare them when they enter Algeria. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. These accounts may be freely credited with book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, imported convertible foreign cur- rencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and domestic bank-to-bank book transfers between accounts held by ind iv idua ls. These accounts may be debited freely for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system. They may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the BOA. Economic entities are also allowed to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, inc lud ing the retained proportion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign currency payments for goods and services pertaining to the ir business. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in certain cases, e.g., embassies. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts may be credited with foreign currency banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, as well as other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited w i thout restrictions to make transfers abroad, to export through withdrawals of foreign banknotes, and to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ALGERIA Domestic currency accounts Final departure accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural person residing in Algeria who is not of Algerian nationality, and who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited with an amount equivalent to the holdings as of October 20, 1963, of the person con- cerned; the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be deb- ited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Convertible into foreign currency Outward transfers require individual approval. Blocked accounts Individual suspense accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. Except otherwise indicated by the BOA, down payments for imports may not exceed 15% of the total value of imports. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry incurs expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Although not an official regulation, domiciled banks may require from the importer, as part of their normal commercial operations, a deposit in dinars up to the fu ll value of the imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. All imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with cor- responding amounts in dinars valued at the official exchange rate. Any juridical or natural person registered under the Commercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods without prior authorization; no license is needed. There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A small number of imports are prohibited for religious or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days. Petroleum companies are subject to the same rule, but proceeds may be deposited in a guaranteed account with a foreign corre- spondent bank of the BOA. All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must surrender 50% of the proceeds to the interbank market; the remaining portion may be retained in a foreign currency account. Exporters may use the funds in these accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 15 for imports or other payments per ta in ing to their business, or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency account. Proceeds from exports of nonhydrocarbons, and nonminerals may be surrendered to commercial banks and other authorized partici- pants in the interbank foreign exchange market. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requirements are not enforced in practice. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted, and certain exports are proh ib i ted for social or cul- tural reasons regardless of destination. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All trade-related payments for approved trade transactions are free; there are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, commissions, credit card use abroad, and on interest payments. Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Profit remittances are permitted, provided tax obligations have been met. Foreign exchange allocation for tourism by Algerian residents was suspended in Octo- ber 1986. P i lgr ims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals. The amount is fixed for each p i lgr image and may be provided in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for w i th imported fore ign exchange. Yes. The l im i ts range between DA 300,000 and DA 1,800,000 for off ic ial or business travel depending on (1) annual revenues, (2) capital base, and (3) financial statements of the company in question. Commercial banks (not BOA) are responsible for de term in ing l im i ts w i th in ceilings. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is requ i red for amounts over DA 120,000. The l im it is DA 120,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion may provide foreign exchange up to the estab- lished l im i t. Approval is required for amounts over DA 7,500. The l im it is DA 7,500 a month, for a school year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Approval of the BOA is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ALGERIA Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Residents of other countries work ing in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for pub l ic enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of their salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Pensions Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits The BOA must authorize the granting of foreign exchange. Limits are set on a case-by-case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Fifty percent of the receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to ind iv idual approval by the BOA. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad ALGERIA 17 Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign direct investment is freely permitted, except in certain specified sectors, pro- vided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Banks and financial institutions can borrow from abroad for their own needs or for those of their clients. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) n.a. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are restricted; however, banks and financial institutions can on-lend foreign funds borrowed abroad. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ALGERIA Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks and financial institutions are required to meet the following cover: (1) a maximum spread of 10% between their position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their counterpart funds in domestic currency; and (2) a maximum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, which- ever is highest) for all foreign currencies and domestic currency resources. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements January 2. The BOA established an interbank foreign exchange market. Arrangements for payments and receipts December 18. The BOA authorized the establishment of foreign exchange bureaus. December 19. The BOA delegated to commercial banks the authority to carry out for- eign exchange transactions up to specific ceilings for health and education spending abroad, as well as for business expenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 3J, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency 4 The currency of Angola is the adjusted kwanza (KZR). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Through June 1996, the official exchange rate of the adjusted kwanza was fixed by the National Bank of Angola (BNA) and applied to sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on the basis of allocations that were administratively set at fixing sessions held from time to time. On Ju ly 1, 1996, the authorities pegged the official exchange rate to the U.S. dollar and mandated that all transactions take place at the off ic ial exchange rate. Exchange houses were no longer allowed to deal at market-determined rates but instead were obliged to deal at rates set for commercial banks. The BNA applies a spread of 1% to its buy ing and selling exchange rates (primary official), and commercial banks apply a spread of 6.1% to their buy ing and selling rates (secondary official). An illegal parallel rate also exists as a result, inter alia, of restrictions on official rate foreign exchange transactions. The p rem ium as of end-1996 was 20%-25% and the spread about 7%-8%. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The BNA prescribes the currency to be used in import and export transactions, wh ich is either that of the country of origin of imports or the country of destination of exports, or the U.S. dollar. Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Bilateral settlement arrangements, wh ich do not contain bilateral payment features, are maintained w i th Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. According to the new exchange law approved in early 1997, the BNA is the exchange authority; it has the authority to delegate its powers pertaining to specific activities to other entities. The BNA has authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to carry out transactions in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange dealers licensed to operate in foreign exchange may deal on ly in banknotes and traveler's checks. The BNA has delegated authority to banks to license and execute permitted inv is ib le and capital fore ign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ANGOLA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold and trade gold only in the form of jewelry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold are the monopoly of the BNA. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are prohibited. Residents are permitted to take out more than $5,000 in foreign exchange only if they present exchange purchase documents. Nonresidents must present such documents when the amount exceeds $10,000. When departing Angola, nonresidents visiting the country for purposes of tourism or business are permitted, upon presentation of the correspond- ing sales vouchers, to repurchase up to 50% of the foreign exchange they sold to insti- tutions accredited to deal in foreign exchange. Reimports of domestic currency are proh ib i ted. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks that a person may bring into the country, but any amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon arrival. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Checkbooks may not be issued against personal accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited w i th retained export earnings, foreign currency transferred from abroad, cash, trav- eler's checks, foreign payment orders, and interest accrued. They may be debited w i th sales against domestic currency, but, as of Ju ly 1996, they may not be used in settlement of imports of goods and inv is ib les or capital payments. Transfers between these ac- counts are prohibited. Held abroad n.a. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Prior approval is requ ired to open these accounts; they may be credited w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad or the deposit of proceeds from the account ho lde r 's activities in Angola. They may be debited with the sale of foreign exchange or the repa- triation of all or part of the existing deposit. Accounts in adjusted kwanzas may be opened or held by former residents, but the funds in such accounts may only be w i thdrawn to cover expenses incurred dur ing their stay in Angola. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 21 Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list n.a. Yes. Yes. All imports are subject to licensing according to a positive list and the foreign exchange budget. The issuance of import licenses for transactions paid with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system is subject to the availability of foreign exchange. The corresponding positive list assigns priority to particular transactions, which are periodically announced by the BNA. Import licenses are also required for statistical purposes even if, exceptionally, the foreign exchange is not purchased from the banking system. These licenses are issued upon application. Licenses for imports requiring for- eign exchange from the banking system are granted only to importers registered with the Ministry of Commerce and require a pro forma invoice from the supplier valid for 90 days that includes the price and shipment cost, as well as a bank guarantee of payment of the local currency counterpart. Prior to shipment, products must be submitted for inspection to ascertain compliance with market-competitive pricing by the Societe gene- rale de surveillance. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. A license fee of 0.1% of the import value is levied. The importation of goods using the importer's own funds requires the prior sale of foreign currency to a commercial bank in an amount equal to the value of the opera- tion in question. It is also possible to import under the bonded warehouse system, in which case the importer applies to the commercial bank for the requisite authorization, presenting the required documentation. Merchandise imports invo lv ing credit from the exporter are subject to analysis by the BNA as a means of ensuring optimal and sound management of external financial resources and guaranteeing compliance with, and maintenance of, a sustainable level of indebtedness. Accordingly, in submitting the im- port documentation to the commercial bank, importers must attach the terms and condi- tions of credit with respect to the goods to be imported, and must then fo l low the same procedures that apply to other arrangements. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. State import monopo ly There is a state import monopoly on petroleum. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Except for foreign oil companies, all export proceeds must be surrendered to the BNA or the commercial bank through wh ich exports were carried out. The BNA may author- ize exporters of goods and services to retain a certain proportion of foreign exchange earnings to be deposited in accounts at local banks. Proceeds from exports must be col- lected and surrendered w i th in 30 days of shipment. Some Angolan firms may receive a portion of their export earnings in foreign exchange in accounts opened abroad for that purpose. The decision to grant e l ig ib i l i ty for this special arrangement is based on the role that such accounts play in generating revenue for Angola. However, the amounts involved are determined on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 Export licenses Without quotas ANGOLA Except for exports of the foreign oil companies, all exports of goods and services are subject to licensing. Exports of arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, ostrich products, cattle, and ivory products are prohibited. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral prod- ucts, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, to- bacco, and petroleum. Reexports of goods other than capital goods and personal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions apply to the export of products that are in short domestic supply. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance All payments require prior approval. Information on the application of bona fide tests is not available. Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment given to domestic air and sea transportation companies, and imports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Quantitative limits Unloading/storage costs Quantitative limits Administrative expenses Quantitative limits Commissions Quantitative limits Interest payments Quantitative limits Profit/dividends Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Foreign investors may remit dividends provided the investment in the resident company exceeds $250,000. In this case, an authorization from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is required only as a formality. Resident nationals may, upon presentation of their passports and airline tickets, purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions as follows: (1) children up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a trip to other countries; and (2) ind iv idua ls over 16 years, up to $1,500 a person a trip to neigh- boring countries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions to cover their employees' travel expenses abroad on trips of up to 30 days for business, service, or training, with the following daily limits: (1) president or equivalent, $350; (2) vice-president or equivalent, $300; and (3) department director or equivalent, $200. If a person returns to Angola earlier than planned, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institution. Foreign exchange is provided through the National Health Board on a case-by-case basis at the off ic ial rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits ANGOLA 23 The l im it is $5,000. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional foreign exchange amount may be granted: up to $2,500 a month is granted to residents who spend up to 90 days abroad for educational, scientific, or cultural purposes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners resid- ing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and financially dependent on, residents in Angola, provided that (1) they are m inor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, demonstrate that they are students or are incapable of working; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, demonstrate they are incapable of working. Credit card use abroad n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Service earnings must be surrendered to the BNA or to the commercial banks w i th in 30 days of receipt, unless the provider is authorized by the BNA to retain a certain propor- tion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Foreign investment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acquisition of equity, total or partial takeover of operations, and lending related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (1994) as well as the provisions of foreign exchange legislation and regulations. Implementation is the responsibility of the Foreign Investment Bureau under the Ministry of Planning and Economic Coordination. Foreign investments in the areas of petroleum production, dia- mond m in ing, and financial institutions are governed by separate legislation. All capital transfers are subject to licensing by the BNA, which has delegated certain authority to the commercial banks. On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 ANGOLA Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no such instruments in Angola, but, in principle, transactions are covered by foreign exchange and foreign investment legislation. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Resident foreign companies must obtain prior authorization from the MOF and, above certain limits, from the BNA to borrow abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investment is prohibited in the following areas: (1) defense, internal pub l ic order, and state security; (2) central banking and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state (education, health, utilities, communications, and transportation infrastructure). Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed the r ight to transfer abroad the proceeds of the sale of investments, inc lud ing gains and amounts owed to them after payments of taxes due, but prior approval of the MOF is required. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements Reserve requirements are on local currency deposits only, Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements June 12. Exchange houses were prohibited from selling foreign currency notes and l im- ited to $5,000 in traveler's checks a client. July 1. Following successive devaluations, the official exchange rate was fixed at a level close to the parallel rate, to be maintained in real terms and adjusted to market condi- tions. Exchange houses were obliged to deal at the secondary official rate rather than the (market-determined) parallel rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts ANGOLA 25 September 30. A foreign exchange budget was reintroduced. July 1. The use of foreign currency accounts "own exchange" for settlement of import invisibles was suspended. July 26. The use of "own exchange" by the productive sectors (agriculture, industry, transport, etc.) was again permitted, subject to strict criteria and prior approval. July 29. The requirement of prior BNA approval was withdrawn for banks to open for- eign currency demand and time deposits for residents (and nonresidents), and approved types of transactions were specified, including payment for imports. July 29. The requirement of prior BNA approval for foreign currency accounts was withdrawn (as above). Imports and import payments July I. The use of foreign currency accounts at local banks for settlement of imports was suspended un t il Ju ly 26, when it was again permitted under tight restrictions. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers July 1. Imports were restricted to goods deemed essential in order to increase their sup- ply; the restriction was eased gradually in subsequent months. July 1. The availability of foreign exchange for invisibles was suspended. September 30. Allowances for invisibles (travel, medical treatments, education, etc.) were reinstated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exchange control authorities The Ministry of Finance (MOF) applies exchange control to all currencies. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency n.a. On imports Foreign currency Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 with- out restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, approval from the MOF must be obtained. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts may be opened, especially in tourist-oriented industries or export trade, whose receipts are primarily in foreign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 27 Held domestically Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. Held abroad n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts may be maintained in any currency and can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. An t igua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. n.a. n.a. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the MOF and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce. Licenses with quotas n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Antigua and Barbuda applies the CARICOM's common external tariff. Tariff rates range from zero to 35% for nearly all items. Tariff rates on a number of items, inc lud ing m i lk and poultry, are zero /Exemp t ions from import duties exist for some goods, inc lud- ing basic foods and agricultural goods. Other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis. Surrender requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place w i th in the bonded area. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for freight, insurance, unloading, and storage are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Administrative expenses Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Profits may be remitted in fu ll after compliance with corporate income tax payments. Upon presentation of supporting documents and with the authorization of the MOF, residents may purchase foreign exchange, including CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars) for each trip outside the ECCB area. Approval on a case-by-case basis is required. n.a. Yes. Approval on a case-by-case basis is required. n.a. n.a. Approval on a case-by-case basis is required. n.a. n.a. Approval on a case-by-case basis is required. n.a. n.a. Approval on a case-by-case basis is required. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 29 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment No. No. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentinian peso. Transactions in convertible currencies are permitted, and contracts in these currencies are legally enforceable, although the currencies are not legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board type of arrangement. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. No. No. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with countries with which there are no payments agreements must be set- tled in freely convertible currencies. W i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA, payments be- tween Argentina and Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are settled voluntarily through payment agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. All payments between Argentina and Bolivia and the Dominican Republic must be made through the accounts specified in the agreements. Argentina has agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Malaysia, and Russia. Pay- ments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through accounts opened with the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) and the other central banks concerned, with the exception of Bulgaria and Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. All exchange transactions are carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose with no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies. Each type of institution is subject to separate regulations. Credit funds and mortgage savings and loan companies may also make certain foreign exchange transactions on the condition that they meet certain additional capital requirements. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on current payments with respect to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were imposed. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 31 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Fi- nancial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good delivery bars among themselves, and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals the market value of which is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and good delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are sub- ject to a statistical duty of 3%, as well as a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good delivery gold bars against foreign banknotes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or in foreign exchange provided that identification requirements aimed, inter alia, at preventing money laundering have been met. Foreign exchange accounts must be denominated in convertible currencies and may be credited only w i th cash or with remittances in the fo l low ing currencies: U.S. dollars for current accounts, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and other currencies that the BCRA explicitly authorizes at the request of financial institutions for deposits in savings and fixed-term accounts. Credit balances may be used freely in Argentina or abroad. Trans- fers between accounts may be made freely. The use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Same regulations as for resident accounts apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ARGENTINA Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses With quotas Expo rt taxes Restrictions are in force solely for security, hygiene, and pub l ic health reasons. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some paper products. There are no nontariff barriers on intra-MERCOSUR trade. However, Argentina applies a special regime to automobile and sugar imports with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agreement on a common regime for these sectors. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some clothes, freezers, furn i ture, paper, plastics, tires, and iron and steel products. A substantial portion of intra-MERCOSUR trade is conducted at a zero tariff rate, but member countries may maintain tariffs for some items. Argentina applies tariffs to cer- tain textiles, paper, and iron and steel products. This regime w i ll be in force un t il the end of 1998, at which time tariffs w i ll be reduced to zero. Argentina and the MERCOSUR countries apply a common external tariff (GET) to im- ports from the rest of the world that encompasses all products, with certain exceptions (Argentina has 300 exceptions) that are subject to a transitional regime un t il 2001 and 2006. CET rates currently range up to 20%. At the end of the transitional period in 2001, the CET w i ll be 14% for capital goods, and in 2006, the CET w i ll be 16% for computer and telecommunications equipment. A statistical tax of 3% is applied to imports from all countries, except those from MERCOSUR countries, Chile, and Bolivia. This tax is waived for capital goods, fue l, and sensitive goods from the paper, computer, and telecommunications sectors. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Licenses are required only for goods subject to quantitative restrictions. Quantitative restrictions on exports are maintained only on arms, sensitive goods and war materials, narcotics, and protected animal species. A 15% export duty is applied to untanned, pickled aplite, and wet b lue leathers, and a 3.5% duty is applied to soybeans, groundnuts, flax, turnips, sunflower seeds, and cotton. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 33 Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Under the regulations of the National Securities Commission (CNV), foreign investors must meet the same requirements as those applicable to Argentine investors to make a public offering of securities in Argentina. In each case, they must establish a permanent representative office and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. They must state whether the securities are also being offered to the pub l ic in their country of origin, and specify the initial and periodic information requirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the country of origin properly protect local inves- tors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the require- ments for these investors. The CNV may authorize foreign investors on a case-by-case basis to submit only such information as they would periodically submit to the corre- sponding authority in their jurisdiction of origin. Yes. No. No. Foreign companies are allowed to invest in Argentina without prior government ap- proval on an equal footing with domestic firms and may enter into any area of economic activity on their own, because no law or regulation forces them to be associated with local partners. This principle applies even in cases where a foreign investment results in fu ll foreign ownership of a domestic company. Some restrictions apply on investment in sensitive sectors, including air transport, fishing, insurance, nuclear plants, and shipyards. Foreign investors are entitled to freely repatriate their investment, including earnings, at any time, and also have unrestricted access to the foreign exchange market. These rights assisting foreign investors have been further established under international law by means of over 30 investment promotion and protection agreements, with the following countries: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Argentina is a member of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Dis- putes, and maintains a valid and active agreement with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. For purchases of real estate in border areas, a foreign investor must seek prior approval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense. This limitation exists for national security reasons. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) In the case of credit extended by financial intermediaries, the funds must be used in the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 ARGENTINA Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally There is a 25% limit of the investment trust portfolio, but this limit does not apply to MERCOSUR. For security reasons, and according to Law No. 24.241 (Pension Funds Reform), no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign country, or in securities of foreign corporations. In the event that the trust's assets consist of the securities, tender offer should be made in Argentina or abroad with a minimum of 75% of the investment being made in assets issued and traded in Argentina. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of DecemberSl, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Armenia is the dram. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the dram against the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of ex- change rates in the interbank market and at foreign exchange auctions held 5 times a week in the Yerevan Stock Exchange (YSE) and twice a week in the G jumry Stock Exchange (GSE). Banks and financial dealers holding licenses from the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) may participate in the auctions. Anyone may buy and sell at the auction through banks. However, since late 1996, foreign exchange transactions have taken place predominantly in the interbank market in which the CBA also participates. The CBA quotes official rates in terms of U.S. dollars daily on the basis of the weighted average rate in the interbank market and at the foreign exchange auctions on the previ- ous trading day. This rate is used for accounting valuation of all foreign exchange trans- actions of all economic agents, inc lud ing the Ministry of Finance. Exchange rates for other major currencies are calculated either on the basis of quotations on the YSE, when applicable, or solely on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar in ma jor international interbank markets against the currencies concerned. Foreign exchange is also freely bought and sold by enterprises and persons w i thout restrictions through authorized banks and licensed exchange bureaus that conduct cash transactions. No. No. There are no restrictions for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sectors. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with other countries are made through correspondent accounts maintained by the commercial banks, which may be opened freely without no t i fy ing the CBA. The settlements can also be effected through the correspondent accounts of the CBA. Set- tlements with countries with which Armenia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any currency. Armenia maintains agreements with Russia and Turkmenistan. Armen ia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Union (with Azerbaijan, Be- larus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), which provides for the eventual establishment of a customs un ion, a payments un ion, cooperation on investment, industrial development, and customs procedures. On October 21, 1994, A rmen ia jo ined the Agreement on the Establishment of Payments Un ion of CIS member countries. Armenia is a member of the Black Sea Economic 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 ARMENIA Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Cooperation (BSEC) organization (with Albania, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine). Bilateral free trade agreements (FTAs) have been signed with the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Ukraine, though only the agreement with Russia is in operation. There is an arrangement with Turkmenistan for the importation of natural gas. In addi- tion, bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inoperative. The CBA has overall responsibility for regulating financial relations between Armenia and other countries in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Banks are granted two types of foreign exchange licenses. A general license gives a bank authority to conduct any type of foreign exchange transaction, including those with nonresidents abroad and gold transactions that require an additional license. Banks with a fu ll license may offer a f u ll range of currency transactions, inc lud ing those in gold. A second, more restricted form of license allows banks operating in Armenia to buy and sell foreign exchange only on behalf of their clients. Payment arrears There are commercial arrears vis-a-vis Russia and overdue obligations to the EU. Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Yes. A license is required for trading. There are no specific regulations governing domestic trade in gold. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Yes. On imports Foreign currency A declaration is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $500. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Residents may open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Armenia. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency banknotes that can be purchased with drams from banks or exchange bureaus, and banknotes can be deposited in a foreign exchange account or used for transactions with nonresidents. However, residents may not transfer balances in these accounts to other residents in order to make payments for goods and services. Resident natural and jur id ical persons may open, maintain, and use accounts in banks abroad. Prior approval is required. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 37 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident natural and ju r id ical persons may freely open and use foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks. They are also free to make withdrawals to make current transactions. Balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to licensed domestic banks for drams. Domestic currency accounts Foreign governments and international institutions may freely open dram accounts with banks in Armenia without prior authorization from the CBA. Prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. No. Imports and Import Payments n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Import licenses from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health are required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pesticides. Imports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require special authorization from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero and 10%; most imports are zero rated. Prod- ucts imported from countries in the CIS are exempted. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds should be repatriated w i th in 30 days of receipt. Surrender requirements No. Export licenses Export licenses are required for medicines, w i ld animals and plants, and textile products exported to the EU. In addition, special government permission is required for the ex- port of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuclear products, and technology with direct m i l i tary applications. M in imum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign-produced goods thereof, remain in force. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 ARMENIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days, except those from cultural activities per- formed abroad. Surrender requirements No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket ins t rumen ts Controls on derivatives and other in s t rumen ts Controls on credit opera t ions Controls on direct inves tment Controls on l iqu id a t ion of direct inves tment Controls on real estate transac t ions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes Dur ing 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aruba is the f lo r in (Af.). No. Unitary. The f lor in is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals w i th local commercial banks w i th in margins of 0.002795% on either side of parity. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherland Antillean guilders. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. No. Exchange control authorities The CBA administers foreign exchange control. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Resident Accounts Natural and ju r id ical persons may hold accounts. Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ARUBA Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Natural and ju r id ical persons may hold accounts. The opening of a nonresident account should be reported in w r i t ing to the CBA. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Balances up to Af. 200,000 are convertible. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. The importation of eggs may be subject to quotas depending on the domestic supply situation. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ irements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in 8 working days and credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account approved by the CBA. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. No. No. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Approval was required for payments of unloading/storage costs, administrative ex- penses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting/legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, and gambling and prize earnings in excess of Af. 50,000 and of medical costs, study abroad costs, and fam i ly maintenance/alimony in excess of Af. 10,000 a calendar quarter; approval was granted for bona fide requests. Also, a li- cense was required for payment of interest and profits and dividends. As of January 1, 1997, all restrictions were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 41 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in 8 working days and credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account approved by the CBA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments A CBA license is required for transactions exceeding Af. 200,000 a year. Purchases of these instruments in the country by nonresidents require a CBA license. Controls on derivatives and other instruments A CBA license is required for transactions exceeding Af. 200,000 a year. Controls on credit operations A license is required for credits exceeding Af. 200,000 a year. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment There is an annual limit of Af. 500,000 for companies and Af. 200,000 for natural per- sons. The CBA may require divestment, repatriation, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment A CBA license is required. Controls on real estate transactions A CBA license is required. Purchase abroad by residents A license is required if the amount of the transaction exceeds Af. 200,000 a year. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Yes. Yes. No. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally The limits are 40% of the first Af. 10 million of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the sec- ond Af. 10 m i l l ion; and 60% of the remaining liabilities. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January L All restrictions on payments for imports were removed. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions January 1. All restrictions on payments and transfers were removed. January L The requirement of a special license for foreign investments of less than Af 500,000 a year by resident entities (excluding commercial banks and ins t i tu t ional investors) was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other countries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market determined. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mu tua l ly negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency with regard to trade- and nontrade-related transactions. But the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA publishes an indicative rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and futures contracts. *, Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The RBA supervises authorized dealers and regulates open foreign exchange positions. The Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC), a law enforce- ment agency, receives information on international transactions including those in cash, which it can pass on to a number of other enforcement and governmental agencies. The only restrictions on external payments and transfers are those to give effect to UN Security Council resolutions imposing sanctions against Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). No. No. Exportation or importation of notes and coins totaling $A 5,000 or more must be re- ported to AUSTRAC. Residents must purchase foreign currency from an authorized dealer. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency they brought into Australia. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. 43 Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be through an authorized dealer. Yes. Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be through an authorized dealer. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Blocked accounts Only those accounts affected by UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota, which applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, certain chemicals and primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained ma in ly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Aus tra l ia's mem- bership in international commodity agreements. Licenses w i th quotas n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Most tariff rates had been reduced to a maximum of 5% through Ju ly 1996. Tariffs on passenger automobiles w i ll decline to 15% from 35%, wh i le tariffs on textiles, footwear, and clothing w i ll decline to a max imum of 25% by the year 2000. The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods. The SPARTECA provides nonrecip- rocal, du ty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand for other mem- bers. Trade between Papua New Gu inea and Australia is covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Developing countries receive tariff preferences on exports to Australia under the Aus- tralian System of Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries, w i th a un i fo rm preferen- tial margin of 5%. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of certain indus tr ies such as textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and f ru it preparations, tuna, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 AUSTRALIA and sugar, except from the least-developed countries and South Pacific Island Territories. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documen ta t ion requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Export p roh ib i t ions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control, administer trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These proh ib i t ions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense materials; regulate the exportation of goods that invo lve high technology and have dual civilian and m i l i tary applications; maintain adequate measures of control over designated cul- tural property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and respond to specific market distortions abroad. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. Approval must be obtained from the government to export coal, liquid natural gas, bauxite, alumina, and mineral sands. Export controls apply to uran ium to ensure com- pliance with the government's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unprocessed wood, inc lud ing wood chips. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fa ll below m in imum prices agreed to under the WTO for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to en- gage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Aus- tralian exports to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian W ine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 45 Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, which may be af- fected by laws on inward direct investment, is restricted. Foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authorities of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Subject to certain disclosure re- quirements, overseas banks may issue securities in the wholesale capital market in amounts of $A 500,000 or more. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Prior authorization is required for (1) proposals by foreign interests that would result in the ownership of a shareholding of 15% or more by a single foreign interest or associ- ates, or 40% or more by two or more unrelated foreign interests in an Australian corpo- ration; however, foreign investment in businesses other than the restricted sectors, with total assets of less than $A 5 m i l l ion (less than $A 3 m i l l ion for rural properties) is ex- empt from examination and notification; (2) all investments in the banking, c iv il avia- tion, shipping, media, and telecommunication sectors are subject to special restrictions; and (3) proposals to establish new businesses in other than the restricted sectors of the economy where the total amount of the investment is $A 10 m i l l ion or more. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All acquisitions of real estate must be notified, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisi- tions of nonresidential commercial real estate for development are normally approved as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. Acquisition of de- veloped nonresidential commercial real estate is exempt where the total value of the property is less than $A 5 m i l l ion. Approval is also norma l ly granted for residential land for development and for the ac- qu is i t ions of dwe l l ings ( inc lud ing condom in iums), direct from a developer, either "off the plan," wh i le under construction, or completed but never occupied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwe l l ings are sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are not normally approved except in cases invo lv ing temporary residents who require accommodation for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon departure. Foreign per- sons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia are not required to seek ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 AUSTRALIA approval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate (including condominiums) within a designated integrated tourist resort is exempt from authorization. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Banks are subject to prudential requirements, e.g., liquidity management, credit concen- tration, and open foreign exchange position limits. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require that, to be a stockbroker, a majority of the directors of the stockholding entity must be Australian residents. This rule does not prohibit foreigners from owning a stockbroking entity. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 11. Sanctions against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were suspended in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Capital transactions September 25. The rules to allow foreign domiciled banks to issue, in their own name, securities on the wholesale capital market were liberalized. Such securities must be in amounts of not less than $A 500,000, and must indicate that they are being issued by a bank that is not authorized under the Banking Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Austria is the Austrian sch i l l ing. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Austria participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Austria maintains the spot exchange rates between the sch i l l ing and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of ±15% around the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. At the same time, it continues to keep the schilling's external value constant against the deutsche mark. However, to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the sys- tem, the Austrian National Bank (ANB) intervenes in concert w i th the other EMS mem- bers to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates; the intervention currencies are the currencies of participant countries and the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made e i ther in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. There are no bilateral payment agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, wh ich inc lude provisions on transfers between the signatories. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the cen- tral bank. Regulation No. 241/94 of the EU Council regarding the further discontinuation of the economic and f inanc ial relations between the EU and the areas of Bosnia and Herze- govina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces has been in force since January 1, 1995. Restrictions are imposed on certain current payments and transfers to Libya in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993). Certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq are still in force. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) No. No. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 AUSTRIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by UN sanctions. Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agri- cultural products. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regulations based on the common commercial policy (Art. 113 EEC), i.e., for industrial product import restrictions in the textile and clothing sectors and statistical surveillance for products fa l l ing under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regulations vis-a-vis China for imports of some consumer products based on current EC law. Positive list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Austria applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requ irements No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 49 Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. Licenses for exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry or at the time of clear- ance from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agree- ments, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Outward direct investment Investments exceeding 8100,000 must be reported to the ANB. Inward direct investment In the auditing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power genera- tion sector certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Austrian resi- dents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A reporting requ irement exists. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 AUSTRIA Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits An open position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors A reporting requirement exists. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws A reporting requirement exists. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan manat. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The external value of the manat for noncash operations is determined in daily auctions held at the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange (BICEX). Participation in the auctions is restricted to the commercial banks that are licensed to deal in foreign exchange b idd ing on behalf of their customers. Authorized banks are free to set rates for cash transactions, which are published weekly by the International Bank. The Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) determines the official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar daily, which is equal to the auction rate preva i l ing in the BICEX. The off ic ial rate is used for all off ic ial for- eign exchange transactions, inc lud ing transactions by state-owned enterprises, and for the va lua t ion of foreign assets. An off ic ial rate against the ECU and the Russian ruble is also posted. No commission is assessed on purchases of foreign exchange by the International Bank, but a commission of about 0.3% is added for sales of foreign exchange. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU are effected through correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these states or through correspondent accounts of the respective central banks. n.a. Yes. The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency opera- tions, and administers gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall respons ib i l i ty for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open foreign exchange accounts abroad; for regulating foreign exchange operations, inc lud- ing imp lemen t ing and mon i to r ing compliance with the law; and for establishing pru- dential rules governing foreign exchange operations. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations regulates foreign trade, wh i le the Customs Service Law regulates the organi- zation and operation of customs. International security restrictions No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 AZERBAIJAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation and importation of foreign banknotes are regulated by the AND and the Ministry of Finance, in conformity with customs regulations. On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. No declaration of the origin of foreign exchange is required for ind iv idua ls, who may transfer freely foreign exchange held in these accounts up to $5,000 and, upon authorization, larger amounts to their bank ac- count abroad or may freely convert it into domestic currency. Resident persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts at banks abroad, subject to authorization by the ANB. Enterprises are obliged to repatriate the foreign exchange held in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manats. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manats and use them for domestic transactions, in accordance with instructions issued by the ANB. Foreign gov- ernments and international institutions may open and operate manat accounts with spe- cific authorization from the ANB. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Advance import payments of more than 60 or 180 days prior to the delivery of goods are not allowed for state-owned enterprises or private enterprises. Prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are limited to the equivalent of $10,000. n.a. n.a. Prepayments by bank transfers in excess of $10,000 require either a letter of credit or the authorization of the ANB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 53 Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs During 1996, most import duties ranged from 10% to 20%. In January 1997, tariffs were unified at 15% for all goods and for imports from all countries. A customs fee of 0.15% is levied on imports from all sources. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports w i th in 3 months and trans- fer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan within 10 days of receipt, unless specifically exempted by the government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. Surrender requirements Since June 1996, exporters are no longer required to sell 30% of their earnings at the BICEX auctions. Export licenses Export taxes No. Exports of strategic goods whose domestic prices have been significantly below world market levels, notably oil products and cotton, are subject to export duties that tax away 70% of the difference between the domestic and the export price. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Access to the BICEX for payments for current international transactions by resident ind iv idua ls acting in their personal capacity is denied. Ind iv idua ls may not transfer abroad from their foreign exchange accounts in excess of $5,000 a transaction, unless they are transferring foreign exchange that had been previously sent to them. Informa- tion on indicative l im i ts and bona f ide tests was not available at the time of publication. Interest payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel n.a. n.a. Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000 a trip. Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony The l im it is $5,000 a transaction. The l im it is $5,000 a transaction. n.a. n.a. n.a. Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000 a transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 AZERBAIJAN Credit card use abroad n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 3 months and transferred to a licensed bank within 10 days of receipt. Surrender requirements No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not allowed to buy foreign securities, Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not allowed to buy money market instruments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. n.a. n.a. Profits may be reinvested in local currency held in Azerbaijan or converted into foreign currency and transferred without restriction. Foreign investors are granted certain privi- leges: enterprises or jo int ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30% are entitled to a 2-year holiday on profit taxes, imports and exports of goods and services may be undertaken without licenses, and exporters of manufactured goods are allowed to retain 100% of their foreign exchange earnings. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements November 1. Foreign exchange auctions were increased to 5 times a week, from 3 times a week. Exports and export proceeds June L The requirement to sell 30% of export proceeds at the BICEX auctions was eliminated. Imports and import payments January 1. Tariffs were un i f ied at 15% for all goods imported from all countries. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian dollar. Commemorative coins in denom ina t ions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$ 1,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver are legal tender but do not circulate. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. In addition to the official exchange market, there is a market in which investment cur- rency may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank of The Bahamas (CBB); the current prem ium bid and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct investments outside The Bahamas. In certain circumstances, the CBB may also permit residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such outward investments. The Bahamian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l per $1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th the buy ing rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5% above the buy ing rate. The CBB deals only with commercial banks. For transactions w i th the pub- lic, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50% buy ing and 0.75% selling per $1, and 0.50% buy ing or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to all outward remittances. No. Commercial banks may prov ide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu tu re require- ments w i thout the CBB's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward with nonresidents w i thout prior approval from the CBB. Commercial banks may deal forward among themselves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requ irements The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no d is t inc t ion between foreign territories. Settlements w i th residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Foreign currencies com- prise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 THE BAHAMAS including payments for imports up to B$ 100,000; approval authority for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bul- lion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the CBB, meet their current industrial requirements. There is no restric- tion on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bu l l ion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license and are duty free, although a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax pay- able to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. A traveler could export banknotes up to B$70 un t il February 17, 1997, when the l im it was raised to B$200. Foreign currency Bahamian travelers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. On imports Domestic currency Importation is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. With the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Baha- mas and for nonresident investors. Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not ga infu l ly employed in The Bahamas. Persons of a foreign national- ity who have been granted temporary resident status are treated in some respects as non- residents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency origi- nating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval of the CBB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 57 Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts The accounts of residents emigrating from The Bahamas and who are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents are blocked for amounts in excess of B$25,000 for a period of 4 years. Balances on blocked accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after that time or through the Investment Currency Market at any time; they may also be invested with the approval of the CBB in certain resident-held assets or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for imports exceeding B$ 100,000, irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the exis- tence of a purchase contract. The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled for social, humanitar- ian, or health reasons. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. All other goods may be imported without a license. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tariff rate on most goods is 42%, and the average tariff rate is 35%. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no import duty on certain tourist-related goods but these goods attract stamp duty ranging from 8% to 20%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or w i th in 6 months of shipment; alternatively, ex- port proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export licenses are not required, except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammun i t ion. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no restrictions on current payments. However, there are limits on the approval authority delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may make ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 THE BAHAMAS Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Commissions Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life-insurance premiums, within specified limits. CBB approval is required for payments in excess of those limits or for categories of payments not delegated. CBB approval is required for transactions over B$3,000. CBB approval is required for transactions over B$6,000. For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer. Yes. Under delegated authority, the limits for tourist travel are B$ 1,000 a person above the age of 18 years and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a trip. For business or professional travel, the limit is B$ 10,000 a person a year. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign exchange ob- tained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in 1 week of returning to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Apart from a B$ 1,000 cash allowance, authorized dealers may approve all medical pay- ments to doctors or medical establishments. Under delegated authority, residents are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance of B$3 ,000 ap e r son a t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance is granted by the CBB without a limit. Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Under delegated authority, the limit is B$ 1,000. Yes. Under delegated authority, the limit is B$3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. The l im it is 50% of wages and salaries. If commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, addi- tional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. Gambling/prize earnings Residents are not allowed to remit funds for gaming purposes. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 59 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Approval is required for residents to hold an international credit card, wh ich may not be used to pay for l ife insurance premiums and capital items. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all proceeds. Surrender requirements A ll foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i thout delay. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and outflows of resi- dent-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, wh ich are encour- aged, are required to go through the manual exchange control approval process, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The same regulations as detailed below apply for money market instruments, collective investment securities, and derivatives. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian dollar-denominated securities must fund the acquisi- tion of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. In pr inc ip le, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals gen- erally reflects the government's economic and investment policy gu ide l ines. Yes. Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official ex- change, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th invest- ment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the CBB, and are normally transacted through authorized agents who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions without any further approval from the CBB. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by, or to the order of, an author- ized agent. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the CBB by December 31, 1972, are e l ig ib le for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the off ic ial rate of exchange. A resident company who l ly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Bahamian dollars, although approval may be granted to obtain work ing capital in local currency. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local cur- rency borrowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to the resident in- terest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 THE BAHAMAS To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresi- dents pr imar i ly to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign cur- rency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direc- tion of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. Yes. Yes. The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings w i th in 18 months of the investment w i ll at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to ind iv idual approval from the CBB, by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are l ike ly to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward direct investment CBB approval is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents require the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Baha- mas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property a fam i ly. Incidental expenses connected w i th the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expend i tures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, w i th permission, be met w i th foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit from the Investments Board. If such an applica- tion is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase prop- erty for residential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Foreign Investment Board on completion of the transaction. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval is required. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 61 Lending locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is B$500,000 for a long or short position. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no securities legislation. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts February ] 7. The limit on exports of banknotes by travelers was raised to B$200 from B$70. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Currency The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Bahrain dinar is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.47619 per SDR 1. The ex- change rate of the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set with margins of ±7.25% of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has main- tained a stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The m idd le rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates to banks for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds ster- ling, and deutsche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge a commission of 2%o (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other cur- rencies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rates against the U.S. dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of banks' monthly returns. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. No. Exchange control authorities There is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10% customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain BMA approval before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 63 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Indus try. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gu lf (GCC), provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bahrain and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, pub l ic policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5% and 10% on most commodities but the rate is 20% on vehicles, a m in imum of 50% of declared or estimated customs va lue of tobacco, and 125% on alcoholic beverages. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly In practice, rice is imported ma in ly by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BAHRAIN Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exporters must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles from Israel are prohibited. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by resi- dents or nonresidents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There is a l im it of 25% on holding of shares of pub l ic companies by nonnationals. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with non- residents, although transactions with residents are not normally permitted. Imports and import payments December 8. The import tariff on tobacco and related products was set at a m in imum of 50% of a declared or estimated customs value. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 11, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The taka is pegged to a weighted currency basket of Bangladesh's major trading part- ners. The external value of the taka was adjusted on January 8, April 8, April 20, July 15, August 1, September 7, and September 23, 1996. Since January 1, 1996, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) ceased to deal in the currencies of the other ACU countries and deals with authorized domestic banks only in U.S. dollars, the intervention currency. Authorized banks are free to set their own buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for other currencies based on cross rates in international markets. No. No. Forward contracts are available from authorized banks, covering periods of up to 6 months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to 3 months of remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. Authorized banks are permitted to retain working balances with their foreign correspondents. Cur- rency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are effected against underlying approved commercial transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BB does not transact in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, through nonresident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries are required to be effected through the ACU in terms of the AMU (equivalent in value to the U.S. dollar, effective January 1, 1996). Settlements for trade under bilateral commodity exchange agreements are effected through special nonconvertible U.S. dollar accounts. Payments for imports may be made to any country (with the exception of countries from which importation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Bangladesh maintains commodity exchange agreements in nonconvertible U.S. dollars with Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, and Hungary. The ACU was integrated by Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BANGLADESH Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange control is administered by the BB in accordance with general policy formu- lated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. Commercial banks and specialized financial institutions are issued licenses as authorized dealers (authorized banks) in for- eign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Com- merce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit (LCs). LC authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. All settlements with Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited according to UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. The importation and exportation of gold and silver require special permission. However, adult female travelers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and silver for exports/manufacturer of jewelry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. Both Bangladesh and foreign nationals may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry or up to $5,000 or the equivalent, brought in without declaration. They may also, without obtaining the approval of the BB, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into con- vertible foreign currencies at the time of their departure. Residents may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to $5,000 brought in without declaration upon return from a previ- ous visit abroad. The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to $5,000, but larger amounts should be declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remit- tances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 67 postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) trans- fers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme (WES); and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited w i thout restriction, subject to reporting to the BB. Residents, when returning from abroad, may br ing in any amount of foreign currency and may maintain a resident foreign currency deposit account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions arising from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Exporters and local jo in t-ven ture f irms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of dip- lomatic missions in Bangladesh, their expatriate personnel, and d ip loma t ic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Prior approval is required. Residents who had opened accounts abroad when previously residing abroad may maintain such accounts after returning to Bangladesh. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. All nonresident accounts are regarded for ex- change control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident (the accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts). Bangladesh nationals res id ing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and f irms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial institutions, inc lud ing institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government ins t i tu t ions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident for- eign currency deposit accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited in in i t ial m i n im um amounts of $1,000 or $500 ($25,000 for foreigners), w i th remittances in convertible currencies and transfers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The accounts bear interest if their terms range from 1 month to 1 year. Bangladesh nationals may maintain a foreign currency account abroad wh i le residing abroad and may con t inue to hold the account after re turn ing to Bangladesh. The bal- ance, in c lud ing interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangla- desh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported mon th ly by banks to the BB. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or ma in ta in a foreign currency deposit account wh i le abroad may open a non- resident foreign currency deposit account w i th foreign exchange brought in from abroad w i th in 6 months of the date of the ir return to take up permanent residence in Bangla- desh. These accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without prior approval from the BB for Bangladesh nationals and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for for- eign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account ho lde r 's absence by authorized dealers w i thout prior approval from the BB. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout pr ior approval from the BB, but are subject to ex post recording. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign a i r l ine and sh ipp ing companies, and international nonprof it organizations in Bangladesh may open interest- bearing accounts, but the interest earned can be disbursed only in local currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BANGLADESH Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be opened by all diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, international nonprofit organizations ( inc lud ing charitable organizations func t ion ing in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, UN organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status). These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely permitted. Prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Nonresident taka accounts of Bangladesh nationals can be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports require approval from the BB, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required for items prescribed in the IPO. Letters of credit Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable LCs. Recognized export-oriented un i ts operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of up to 4 months' requirement of their raw and packing materials by establishing import LCs w i thout reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (either on a sight basis under the Export Devel- opment Fund, or up to a 180-day validity basis) against export LCs received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization from the BB. Authorized dealers may establish LCs on an f.o.b. basis w i thout the approval of the BB, subject to certain conditions. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. All importers ( inc lud ing all government departments, with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain LC authorization forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Im- porters are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without an import license. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payment agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are oth- erwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and imports transported on flag vessels of Israel are prohibited. Goods must be shipped within 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts, and 9 months in the case of all other items. Items not specified in the control list of the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The controlled list contains 110 items from about 1,400 categories at the 4-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for pub l ic safety, religious, environmental, and social reasons, or because similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes (7 of wh ich are banned and 19 are restricted). Imports from Israel are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open general licenses Licenses with quotas BANGLADESH 69 All items not on the control list are freely importable by registered importers. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LC authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list. Separately, indus- trial consumers may be issued w i th LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the in- dustry concerned and must not be sold or transferred w i thout prior approval. Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are 7 tariff bands: zero, 2.5%, 7.5%, 15%, 22.5%, 30%, and 45%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses With quotas Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in 4 months of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the BB. Exporters are permitted to retain 7.5% of the proceeds of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of the proceeds from other exports; they may use re- tained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad, partici- pation in trade fairs and seminars, and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. These earnings may also be used to set up offices abroad without prior permis- sion from the BB. Joint ventures, other than in the garment industry, located in export- processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 80% of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and place the remaining 20% in a bank account in domestic currency. Yes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, wh i le others are restricted to ensure the supply of the domestic market. Export licenses are requ ired for all banned or re- stricted items. Quotas are imposed on garment exports by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (since 1996) on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use to be able to reallocate un f i l led quotas. Export taxes Exports of ju te are taxed. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BANGLADESH Administrative expenses Prior approval No prior permission is required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales, and of training and consulting fees of up to 1% of sales. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Quantitative limits Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad without prior approval from the BB. No approval is required if loan agreements are in conformity with Board of Investment (BOI) guidelines. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of the BB on receipt of applications from the companies concerned; applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolution declaring d iv idends out of profits derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax liabilities are covered. Authorized dealers may remit profits of foreign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh to their head office on receipt of applications supported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a year; the allowance for air travel to these 7 countries is $1,000 a person a year. For new exporters, the indicative l im it for business travel is $6,000, wh i le established exporters are permit- ted to utilize balances held under the export retention scheme (7.5% of exports of ready- made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manufacturers producing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equivalent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the value of imports, respectively. There is an annual ceiling of $5,000 in both cases. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits Up to $10,000 can be obtained without prior approval. Larger amounts are subject to the approval of the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Foreign currency for education is made available up to the cost of tu i t ion and l iv ing expenses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. No prior permission is required for the remittance of fees for undergraduate, postgraduate, and some profes- sional courses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for foreign exchange for study abroad are accepted upon verification of their bona fide nature. Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Indus tr ial enterprises produc ing for local markets may remit up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the previous year's tax return. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 71 Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign nationals may freely remit up to 50% of net salary in terms of service contracts approved by the government. The entire amount of their leave salaries and savings can also be freely remitted. Pensions Prior approval Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Gamb l ing is p roh ib i ted in Bangladesh. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Foreign exchange is ava i lab le for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a certificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level based on p reva i l ing prices. Applications for foreign exchange for fam i ly maintenance abroad are accepted upon verification of the ir bona fide nature. General approval is given for exporters to use against the foreign exchange retention entitlement and for other residents to use for their travel allowance. Quantitative limits Credit cards may be used up to the amoun ts authorized for travel allowances. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket ins trumen ts On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5% of the proceeds and to use retained earnings for bona f ide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals work ing abroad may retain the ir earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether he ld in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer w i th in 1 month of the date of acquisition. However, re tu rn ing residents may keep, in foreign currency ac- counts opened in the ir names, foreign exchange brought in at the time of return from abroad, prov ided that the amount does not represent proceeds from exports from Ban- gladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Residents may retain up to $5,000 brought into the country w i thout declaration. Foreign nationals re- siding in Bangladesh con t inuous ly for more than 6 mon ths are required to surrender w i th in 1 month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings with respect to business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered wh i le in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange retainable as specified above may be used for travel abroad or bona f ide business purposes. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may buy Bangladesh securities through stock exchanges against payment in freely convertible currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Proceeds from sales, inc lud ing capital gains and dividends earned on securities pur- chased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Nonresi- dents cannot issue securities in Bangladesh. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BANGLADESH On money market instruments These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities These transactions are not allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Authorized dealer banks may obtain hedging abroad against exchange rate risks on un- derlying trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export payments deferred for more than 120 days require BB authorization. To residents from nonresidents Import payments deferred for up to 360 days in advance are permissible for capital ma- chinery and for up to 180 days for industrial raw materials. Private industrial units may borrow funds from abroad without the approval of the Board of Investment if the inter- est rate does not exceed 4% above the LIBOR, the repayment period is more than 7 years, and the down payment is less than 10%. All other borrowing by industrial units requires prior BOI approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in specific cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. To residents from nonresidents Authorized dealers (i.e., commercial banks) may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding 7 days at a time. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Banks may issue guarantees/sureties favoring nonresidents in relation to permissible current transactions on behalf of residents. To residents from nonresidents Receipt of guarantees/sureties by residents from abroad requires f u ll disclosure of under- lying transaction. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is sparingly granted for resi- dent-owned capital. Investments, except in the industrial sector, require approval. The Foreign Private In- vestment (Promotion and Protection) Act (1980) provides for the protection and equita- ble treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. There is no ceiling on private investment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to 9 years, depending on the location. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Requests for repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of direct investment (in un- listed companies) are subject to prior scrutiny of the BB. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident w i th funds brought from abroad are allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents Repatriation of sales proceeds are subject to prior approval by the BB, which is not normally granted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 73 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Same regulations as for financial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of these accounts is subject to notification to the BB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not allowed, except with prior BB approval and in specific cases. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is subject to prior approval by the BB. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Purchases are subject to prior approval by the BB. Banks are required to maintain interest rates on foreign currency deposits in line with international market rates. Since July 16, 1996, the BB has placed limits based on banks' paid-up capital and re- serves. Beginning January 1997, the limits that the BB places on each authorized dealer's net open position were set at 12.5% of capital. Domestic institutional investors cannot acquire investment assets abroad. Capital transactions July 16. The BB set ind iv idual limits on the open exchange position for authorized deal- ers based on their paid-up capital and reserves. Changes During 1996 Capital transactions January 1. The BB set authorized dealers' net open positions at 12.5% of capital. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of DecemberSl, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: November 3, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbabos dollar. Gold coins with face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDSS500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The Barbados dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also off ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of their cross-rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125% buying and 1.75% selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875% buying and 1.8125% selling against the Canadian dollar, deutsche mark, and pound sterling. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) periodically obtains forward cover in the interna- tional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central government's exchange risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international mar- kets. The CBB and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, wh i le commercial banks freely switch between nonregional currencies. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries other than Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM country. Settlements w i th residents of these 4 countries should be made in U.S. dollars. n.a. Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the CBB currently sells only 3 CARICOM country currencies: the Bahamian dollar, the Eastern Caribbean dol- lar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jamaica dollars now float against the U.S. dollar, and the CBB fixes daily selling rates based on rates sup- p l ied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to government transactions. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the CBB, which dele- gates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and foreign 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 75 exchange for cash gifts. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Business Development (MICBD). No. No. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and indus t r ial users are not permitted to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins for numismatic purposes. Any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the MICBD. No license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required. Travelers may take out up to BDSS200. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the va lue of BDSS500. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they p rev ious ly brought in. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Subject to specific conditions under delegated authority, authorized dealers may main- tain foreign currency accounts in the names of ind iv idua ls and companies resident in Barbados. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign cur- rency accounts under conditions established at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits requ ire ind iv idual approval. However, where authority has not been delegated to authorized dealers, the permission of the CBB is required. Approval is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Held abroad Permission of the CBB is requ ired. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Same regulations as for resident accounts apply. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, w i th transfers from other external accounts, w i th bank interest, and with payments by residents for wh ich the CBB has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes and for any other payment covered by delegated author- ity to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require ind iv idual approval. Balances on external accounts are convertible. Approval is required. The CBB may require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ine l ig ib le for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be w i thd rawn w i thout approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BARBADOS Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. Authorized dealers may release foreign exchange up to the equivalent of BDS$ 100,000 (c.i.f.) for advance payments for imports into Barbados. Other advance payments require the prior approval of the CBB. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to authorized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar i f fs n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain imports require ind iv idual licenses. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, wh i le others are subject to temporary restrictions (particularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Ind iv idual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Do- minica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licens- ing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. n.a. n.a. Not all goods that are subject to licensing are subject to quantitative restrictions or im- port surcharges. Customs duties correspond to the GET of CARICOM. Rates range from 5% to 30%. Import charges in the form of stamp duties, consumption taxes, and luxury taxes may attain 203%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, inc lud- ing rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, port- land cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported w i thout license. Yes. Exports of sugar to the Un i ted Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 77 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Prior approval is required for payments above the established limits, which are also subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. The established l im i ts are (1) BDS$250,000 for payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, consulting and legal fees; and (2) BDS$ 100,000 for interest payments and for remittances of profits and dividends. Other specific l im i ts are listed below. The limits are BDS$5,000 a person a calendar year for private travel and BDS$500 a day for business travel up to BDS$40,000 a person a calendar year. The l im it is BDS$50,000 a person a year. The l im it is BDS$40,000 a person a year. The limit is BDS$50,000 a person a year. n.a. n.a. n.a. The l im i ts are BDS$ 1,000 for cash g if ts and BDS$50,000 for alimony and other main- tenance expenses. Credit card use abroad n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados requ ire exchange control approval, wh ich is freely given prov ided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for the ir purchase. n.a. These purchases requ ire exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Same regu la t ions as for capital market securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BARBADOS Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for credit operations. Controls on direct investment Investments require exchange control approval. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Liquidation of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is submitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been dis- charged, and the original investment was registered with the CBB. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated annual rate of return on the original foreign investment as follows: for the last 5 years, at 8%; for the 5 years imme- diately preceding the last 5 years, at 5%; and for any period preceding the last 10 years, at 4%. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to remittances of BDS$30 ,OOOayear. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations re- quires the approval of the CBB. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors A 6% tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. n.a. n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts June L Exchange control fees charged by the CBB were abolished. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belarus is the Belarussian rube l. Unitary. In September 1996, the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) allowed a 20% markup for cash and interbank transactions respectively over the official exchange rate established at the auction. In October 1996, the markup was raised to 30%. The rates were reun i f ied on February 3, 1997. A max imum transaction size for off-auc t ion trad ing of $1,000 for dollars, DM 1,000 for deutsche mark, and Rub 100,000 for Russian rub les was in effect un t il October 1996, when the ce i l ing was raised to the equ iva lent of $30,000. In December 1996, the l im it on off-auction interbank transactions was l if ted. On Ap r il 11, 1996, the Minsk Interbank Currency Exchange (MICE) was nationalized and put under the direct control of the NBB. Also, the screening of bids in the auction was intensified, w i th all b ids for pu r- chases of foreign exchange for imports of "nonpriority" commodities summarily rejected. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is set on the basis of the auction rate and used for accounting purposes, for all fore ign exchange transactions of the government, for transactions re- lated to exports and imports, and for most current transfers and capital account transac- tions. Banks can buy at the auction on the ir own account —subject to exposure l im i ts defined by the NBB —as we ll as for confirmed import orders, and there are no restric- tions on cash transactions at the auctions. Af ter the reun if ica t ion of the rates, the rate has been established on the basis of supply and demand and the inflation rate. Repatriation of profits in convertible currency is subject to a 15% tax payable in con- ver t ib le currency. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same provisions as the spot market. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In accordance w i th the Agreement on the Es tab l ishment of a Payment Un ion of Member Coun tr ies of the ClS (1994) and b i la teral payment agreements between Belarus and the central banks of those countries, settlements between Belarus and CIS member coun tr ies are effected in the national currencies of the parties invo lved in the settlements, in the currencies of payment un ion member countries, and in freely conver t ib le currencies, in accordance w i th legislation in effect on the territory of the coun try. Settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries and the Baltic countries are effected u s ing noncash procedures via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and central banks. In accordance w i th b i la teral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, L i thuan ia, Moldova, Ta j ik- istan, Uzbekistan, and Ukraine, only settlements for operations ensuing from the func- tions of central banks are effected via correspondent accounts of central banks. Settlements for all other accounts are effected via correspondent accounts of authorized banks. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BELARUS Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities In accordance with bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan, settlements between economic agents of these countries may be effected both via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and via correspondent accounts of central banks. Belarus maintains bilateral trade and/or payments agreements with 34 countries, includ- ing the CIS countries. n.a. n.a. There are arrangements with Minsk, Moscow, and various regions in Russia. There is an agreement with Uzbekistan calling for the exchange of cotton from Uzbeki- stan for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements with Moldova and Ukraine. Barter trade of certain goods requires approval from the Commission of the Council of Ministers on the Issuance of Authorization to Engage in Commodity-Exchange Opera- tions. Barter agreements are effected at the level of economic agents. The Parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for administering them. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Trade arrears on gas payments to Russia are maintained. Official Private Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade A license is required for the exportation of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Up to the rubel equivalent of 500 m in imum wages may be taken abroad. Resident ind iv idua ls are permitted to take abroad up to $500 a year. Larger amounts may be taken out with a customs declaration proving that they were brought into Be- larus, or with a certificate from an authorized bank that they were exchanged legally. Domestic currency Up to the rubel equivalent of 500 m in imum wages may be imported. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks in Belarus authorized to transact in foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 81 Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval of the NBB is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Balances may be converted for payments to import goods, labor, and services; payments for business trip expenditures and training abroad; and repayments of loans and interest. Nonbank financial organizations can convert balances to perform dealing operations, and insurance companies to establish insurance funds from net profits. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Yes. n.a. Nonresident jur id ical persons may maintain foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. The sources of the funds can be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sales of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, inc lud ing sales to residents; debt-service payment; interest earned on balances in the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or exchanged for rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts Until September 19, 1996, nonresident jur id ic ial persons could open "L" accounts and "N" accounts at authorized commercial banks. On that date, these accounts were abol- ished and replaced by "I" (investment) and "T" (current) accounts. L accounts may be credited with the rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sold to the NBB or authorized banks, d iv idends from foreign-owned enterprises or jo int ventures, returns on securities, and sales of such securities w i th in Belarus. Funds from these accounts are freely usable in Belarus and may be converted into foreign currency at the market exchange rate. N accounts may be funded by proceeds from the sale of goods produced in Belarus or from the sale of goods directly imported from abroad. Balances in these accounts may be used only for business travel expenses, to purchase inputs used for the production of goods for export from Belarus, to purchase foreign exchange at the market exchange rate at auctions (up to the l im it of nonresidents' initial investment plus proceeds from sales of their output in Belarus), for payment of wages, and for investment purposes as determined by the government with the permission of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Restrictions on the conversion of funds held in nonresident accounts were reintroduced in November 1995. As of April 1996, nonresidents are not allowed to use funds held in N accounts to pur- chase nonconvertible currencies, and are required to hold any Belarussian security pur- chased from funds held in the N account (which holds the nonresident proceeds from exports to Belarus) or from outside sources for at least 60 days in order to be able to transfer the proceeds from the sale of the securities to the L account (which holds the nonresident proceeds from investments in Belarussian securities and foreign exchange operations). If the security is held for less than 60 days, the sale proceeds w i ll be re- turned to the N account. Since September 19, 1996, nonresident juridical persons may open I accounts and T accounts at authorized commercial banks. I accounts may be credited with the rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sales, dividends, resources from the realization of l iqu i- dated enterprises, and compensation in the event of the nationalization of enterprises. Resources from type I accounts may be used to purchase foreign currency, shares of enterprises, privatization checks, etc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BELARUS Type T accounts are used for the performance of current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and of goods and services, and resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt obligations of banks, etc. are transferred into them. Resources from type T accounts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expenditures. Convertible into foreign currency Only balances from I accounts are convertible. Approval is required. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments Approval is required for (1) down payments for goods or services exceeding $100,000; (2) payments for imports more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the goods in Belarus, which require the special permission of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Re- lations (MFER) (for goods imported under barter or clearing arrangements, the period is 180 days); and (3) interest payments to nonresidents on returned down payments when an original contract is not fu l f i l led. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures n.a. Yes. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses are required for importing certain pesticides, herbicides, and industrial wastes. The importing of radioactive or toxic wastes, as well as publications or videos that are against state morals, health, or security are prohibited. There are no customs barriers between Belarus and Russia, and a common trade policy toward third countries exists. The tariff structure consists of rates of 1% to 5% that ap- ply to goods such as plants, seeds, foodstuffs, raw materials, ores, petroleum, and spare parts, and of rates of 40% to 100% that apply to goods such as weapons, ammunition, precious metal products, carpets, and motor vehicles. On March 18, 1997, certain cus- tom duty rates were raised to harmonize them with those applied by Russia. For exam- ple, the fo l low ing rates were raised: for apparel and clothing to 30% from 20%, for poultry to 30% from 25%, and the rate for refrigerators was raised by 5 percentage points. There are numerous exemptions. Regular import duty rates apply to countries with MFN status. Duties are applied at twice the MFN rate on imports from countries without MFN status. Duties on imports from developing countries covered by Russia's system of preferences are half the MFN rate or zero. On February 10, 1997, the list of goods to which a preferential regime does not apply was expanded. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly Imports of alcohol and tobacco products are effected by state monopolies. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of shipping; special approval of the MFER is needed for longer periods of time. The period for goods exported under a bar- ter or clearing contract is also 120 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 83 Surrender requirements There is a 50% surrender requirement. In October 1996, foreign exchange from export proceeds used to purchase raw materials and other inpu ts was exempted from the sur- render requirement. Documentation requirements A transaction certificate is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Export bans exist for some medicinal herbs, art and antique collections, certain w i ld animals, and goods imported into Belarus on a humanitarian basis. Exports of certain goods, inc lud ing amber, ores and concentrates, and precious metals and stones, requ ire a license subject to the approval of the Precious Metals Committee of the Ministry of Finance. Mineral fertilizers and waste and scrap of ferrous and nonferrous metals are subject to export quotas and licensing requirements. Customs duties for exports to non-CIS countries have been eliminated. VAT and excise taxes are collected on excisable goods that are exported to CIS countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Other export taxes A rent payment for exported t imber and products thereof applies. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Prof i t /d iv idends Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Resident i n d i v i d u a ls are permitted to purchase up to $500 a year at the market exchange rate for tour ist travel; however, persons who use the ir international credit cards for tourist travel expenses can purchase foreign exchange to settle the obligations on those cards. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona f ide ex- penses related to business travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 BELARUS Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requirements Surrender requ irements All service export proceeds must be repatriated after 120 days, unless special permission for longer period of repatriation has been granted by the MFER. A requirement of 50% applies to receipts in freely convertible currencies and Russian rubles. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions The Ministry of Finance and the NBB establish procedures for transactions in securities. Commercial credits External borrowing by residents must be registered with the NBB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed fu ll repatriation of their in i t ial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Foreign investment must be registered at the MFER; in the case of financial institutions, also at the NBB. In the case of insurance institutions, it must also be registered at the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain activities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 85 require special approval (license). When establishing an enterprise with foreign invest- ments, the size of a foreign investor's share is not restricted, except for insurance or- ganizations and banks, where it may not exceed 49%. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad No. n.a. Maintenance of accounts abroad The opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the NBB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangements September 6. The NBB allowed a 20% markup for cash and interbank transactions over the official exchange rate established at the auction. Changes During 1996 Nonresident accounts Exchange arrangements Imports and import payments October 6. The NBB allowed a 30% markup for cash and interbank transactions over the official exchange rate established at the auction. October 21. The ceiling for a maximum transaction size for off-auction trading was raised to $30,000. December 11. The l im it on off-auction transactions was lifted. April 16. Nonresidents were prohibited to use funds held in N accounts to purchase nonconvertible currencies, and were required to hold any Belarussian security purchased from funds held in the N account (which holds the nonresident proceeds from exports to Belarus) or from outside sources, for at least 60 days to be able to transfer the proceeds from the sale of the securities to the L account (which holds the nonresident proceeds from investments in Belarussian securities and foreign exchange operations). If the se- curity is held for less than 60 days, the sale proceeds must be returned to the N account. September 19. L and N accounts were abolished and replaced by I and T accounts. Changes During 1997 February 3. The exchange rates were reunified under a managed floating system where the official exchange rate is set on the basis of supply and demand and the inflation rate. February JO. The list of goods to which a preferential customs duty rate does not apply was expanded. March 18. Certain customs duty rates were raised to harmonize them w i th those applied by Russia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Belgium is the Belgian franc. The Luxembourg franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the currencies are at par. Belgium participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Belgium maintains spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross-rates derived from the central rates expressed in ECUs. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Belgium applies exchange restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Yes. No. No. No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 87 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by international security restrictions. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Ind iv idual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from member countries of the EU), inc lud ing many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along w i th other EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA and also applies a system of m in imum import prices to foreign steel products quotas on a number of steel products from Russia and Ukraine, and quotas on a number of products from China (toys, shoes, ceramic, porcelain, and glassware). On January 1, 1997, the quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was eliminated. Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agri- cultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes BELGIUM Export licenses are required only for a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for diamonds, and for some iron and steel products. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments The public issue or sale of debt securities that are not of EU origin is restricted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The public issue or sale of money market securities and instruments that are not of EU origin is restricted. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The pub l ic issue or sale of collective investment securities that are not of EU origin is restricted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The pub l ic issue or sale of instruments and claims that are not of EU origin is restricted. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for a take- over by or on behalf of a person, company, or institution from a non-EU state, and the acquisition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies not having their principal office in Belgium. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 89 Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts October 2. Exchange restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Serb forces were lifted. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. Authorization for imports of certain preserved foodstuffs (tuna, bonito, and sardines) was abolished. January 1. The quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of April 30, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Currency The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. A stamp duty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specific list of currencies in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. These currencies include Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. Regional arrangements Belize is a member of CARICOM. Clearing agreements Bilateral clearing between ind iv idual CARICOM members. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) is responsible for administering exchange control, which applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is dele- gated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in excep- tional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the CBB. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for audit and record keeping. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported without the approval of the CBB. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZ$100. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 91 Each traveler may take abroad up to the equivalent of BZ$400; visitors may take out up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require the approval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Each traveler may bring in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange accounts held domestically and abroad are permitted; prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must have permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency ac- counts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. Prepayments for imports require authorization from the CBB; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. Since June 1995, the CBB began to ration its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential import items such as fuel and Pharmaceuticals. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. Import tariff rates range from 5% to 30% with a number of items (particularly, agricul- tural inputs) entering duty free. Imports by most of the pub l ic sector and certain non- prof it entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for reexport are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement duties ranging from 15% to 25%. Specific duties and surcharges apply to certain products. In November 1995, spe- cific duties on beer, spirits, and tobacco were increased, and the import surcharge on fuel was increased by 25 cents a gallon. A 15% value-added tax was introduced on April 1, 1996, and the import tariff was reduced to 35% from a max imum of 45%. The stamp duty was also eliminated on that date. On Apr il 1, 1997, the import tariff was further reduced to a maximum of 30%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 BELIZE Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than 6 months after the date of shipment, unless otherwise directed by the CBB. Since mid-1995, the CBB has resorted to direct purchases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the traditional prac- tice of purchasing from commercial banks. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for live animals, excluding pets; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks, excluding agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus fruits; and sugar. Yes. Exports of lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and w i ld animals are subject to an ad valorem export duty of 5%. A 2% tax is applied to sugar exports. On Apr il 1, 1996, export duties were eliminated. Reexports and transshipments are subject to a 3% customs administration fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Since June 1995, the CBB has rationed its sale of foreign exchange for inv is ib le pay- ments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis except for a few essential items such as insurance. There are no controls of payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage, administrative expenses, and for the use of credit cards abroad. Commissions Prior approval Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Income statement and declaration of d iv idends must be presented along with clearance from the CIT. The l im i ts are (1) for nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a calen- dar year; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a max imum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Payments are made directly to a doctor or hospital with original invoices or b i l ls sup- porting the application. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 93 Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. Indicative limits/bona fide test Similar requirements to those for study abroad apply. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Approval by the CBB is required. n.a. n.a. Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval by the CBB is required. The limit for gifts is BZ$100 a donor, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All capital transfers require the approval of the CBB, but control is liberally administered. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 BELIZE Inward direct investment It is advised that inward direct investment be registered with the CBB for fu ture repa- triation of profits. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1996 Imports and import payments April 1. A 15% value-added tax was introduced; the maximum import tariff was reduced to 35% from 45%, and the stamp duty on imports was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds April L Export duties were eliminated. Imports and import payments April L The maximum import tariff was reduced to 30% from 35%. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buy ing and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Ex- change rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. There is an arrangement with Hungary. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the MOF, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The MOF, however, in collaboration with the BCEAO, draws up the exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ru l- ing by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affa irs of the MOF, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious mate- rials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 BENIN Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization of the MOF, which is seldom granted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency CFA franc banknotes may not be exported outside the territories of the CFA franc zone countries; BCEAO notes, up to a l im it of CFAF 2 m i l l ion, may be taken out for travel to BEAC countries and the Comoros. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in 8 days. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authori- zation of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 97 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 are subject to the requirement. All imports exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion are subject to inspection. Letters of credit are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Ac- count countries, and ACP countries. n.a. Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. All imports originating in non-ACP countries are subject to prior authorization. Customs duties consist of 4 bands: 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%. A statistical tax of 3% is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products are made by a state company. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Receipts must be collected w i th in 180 days of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. Proceeds must be repatriated through the BCEAO and sold to authorized banks w i th in 30 days of the contractual due date. No. Yes. n.a. Proceeds must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Preshipment inspection n.a. Export licenses Without quotas Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals, however, re- quire prior authorization of the MOF, with the exception of articles with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 BENIN Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits and commissions, and on interest payments and on remittances of profits and dividends. Payments for travel, medical costs, study abroad, subscription and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, and gambling and prize earnings are subject to in- dicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Approval is required for travel outside the CFA franc zone. The limits are CFAF 500,000 a trip for tourists and CFAF 75,000 a day for business travel. Allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the MOF or, by dele- gation, the BCEAO. The limits are the same as for tourist travel. The limits are the same as for tourist travel. Yes. Upon presentation of an appropriate pay voucher, a residence permit, and documents indicating family situation, foreigners working in Benin may transfer up to 50% of their net salary abroad if they live with their family in Benin, or up to 80% if their family is living abroad. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. The same limits as for tourist and business travel apply. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries are exempt from the requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Benin and France, Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval of the MOF and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required except for shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 99 Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents The fo l low ing credits are exempt from MOF authorization: (1) loans constituting a di- rect investment, wh ich are subject to prior declaration; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchant and export-import f irms (approved by the MOF) to finance transit trade, or by any type of f irm to finance im- ports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount outstanding of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of the loan itself is subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment At least 75% of the investments must be financed from foreign borrowing. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of investment requires declaration. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 1. Benin accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the ngultrum. The Indian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The ngu l trum is pegged to the Indian rupee at a rate of Nu 1 per Re 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. The MOF has delegated to the Royal Monetary Authority (RMA) the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The RMA is charged with implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. No. No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts Approval of the RMA is required to open these accounts, n.a. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN Nonresident Accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments 101 Foreign exchange budget An import license is required for the importation of capital and intermediate goods from countries other than India. F inanc ing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. Yes. The Ministry of Trade and Industries and the Division of Revenue and Customs have jo in t ly introduced the "trade license for import" containing new rules and procedures for imports of goods from countries other than India. The rules and procedures were intro- duced to streamline the procurement system and further the process of trade liberaliza- tion. n.a. n.a. Imports from Ind ia are free from tariffs and are subject only to the Bhutan sales tax. Effec t ive October 1, 1996, tax rates range from zero for essential commodities to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than India are subject to tariffs. New customs rules and regulations and new tariff codes were introduced on September 1, 1996. The max imum tariff rate was lowered to 30% from 100%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alcoholic beverages and spirits (100%). Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export taxes Proceeds in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan w i th in 90 days. Export taxes are applied only to exports of unprocessed t imber, apples, oranges, and cardamom. Exports to countries other than Ind ia receive a rebate at rates ranging from 5% to 20% of the c.i.f. value, w i th the lowest rate app ly ing to unprocessed pr imary products and the highest rate app ly ing to processed products. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most inv i s ib le payments, other than those made in Ind ian rupees, must be approved by the RMA. In fo rma t ion on the existence of quantitative limits or the application of bona f ide tests is not available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 BHUTAN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA. Controls on capita! and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Capital Transactions All capital transactions must be approved by the RMA. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 103 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 September 1. New customs rules and regulations and new tariff codes were introduced. The max imum tariff rate was lowered to 30% from 100%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alcoholic beverages and spirits (100%). October 1. A new sales tax schedule ranging from zero for essential commodities to 50% on tobacco products and beverages was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bo l iv ia is the boliviano. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The official selling rate is determined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bo- l iv ia (CBB). The official exchange rate is the average of the bid rates accepted in the latest auction and applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves in the CBB. Before each auc- tion, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the CBB w i ll not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate and is based on the exchange rates of the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar. The CBB is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of $5,000 or mu l t ip les thereof; the m in imum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the max imum and m in imum bids have been less than 2%. Except for the requirement to surrender the net proceeds from the exportation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and ind iv idua ls may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. All pub l ic sector institutions, including pub l ic enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the CBB auction market. Sales of foreign exchange by the CBB to the pub l ic are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per $1 over its buy ing rate. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Bo l iv ia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the CBB and the central bank of the country concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange con- trol regulations. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), together with the CBB, is in charge of approving pub l ic sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt-service payments. Internat ional security restrictions No. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 105 Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 3% on the gross value of sale of gold bullion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Letters of credit The letter of credit has to be opened at a bank in the Bolivian banking system. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Certain imports are controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Bo l iv ia has a general un i fo rm import tariff of 10%. A tariff of 5% is applied to capital goods, and a rate of 2% is applied to imports of books and printed matter. Donations of food, inc lud ing wheat, are exempt from the import tariff. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the CBB at the official exchange rate w i th in 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export transaction. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Exports other than hydrocarbons are subject to an inspection fee of 1.55% for nontradi- tional products and 1.6% for traditional products; these fees are paid by the government and not by the exporters. No. There are no export taxes. There is a system of tax rebates for indirect taxes and import duty paid on inpu ts of exported goods and services, inc lud ing the duty component of depreciation of capital goods used. Exporters of small items whose value in Bo l iv ia's annual exports is less than $3 million receive tax rebates of 2% or 4% of the f.o.b. ex- port value under a simplified procedure, and other exporters receive tax and import duty rebates based on annually determined coefficients that reflect their documented cost structure. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Pub l ic sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. Profit/dividends Profit remittances are subject to a 12.5% tax (which is computed as equivalent to the 25% income tax times the presumed net profit of 50% of the amount remitted). Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies may retain the proceeds from their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- No. ket instruments Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 107 Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents All foreign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autono- mous entities, and credits to the private sector w i th off ic ial guarantees are subject to pr ior authorization by the MOF and to control by the CBB. All proceeds of borrowings from foreign pub l ic sector agencies must be surrendered to the CBB. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inpu ts for the external sector w i th resources from international f inanc ial institutions, fore ign government agencies, or external lines of credit. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is the va lue of the banks' net worth m inus their fixed assets. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement A r t i c le XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Bosnian dinar. The deutsche mark circulates widely in all three regions of Bosnia: the Bosnian and Croatian ma jor i ty areas (wh ich together form the Federation) and the Serbian ma jor i ty area, known as Repub l ika Srpska. The Croatian kuna circulates widely in the Croatian ma jo r i ty area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Yugoslav dinar circulates in the Repub l ika Srpska. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass i f ica t ion Pegged Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The Bosnian d inar is pegged to the deutsche mark at BHD 100 per DM 1. The National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NBBH) communicates exchange rates to the com- mercial banks at least once a day. Commercial banks must charge the same rates for all transactions. In the Repub l ika Srpska, the National Bank of Repub l ika Srpska (NBRS) receives each day from the National Bank of the Former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (NBFRY) a list of buy ing and selling rates for ma jor currencies. These rates are communicated to the commercial banks for use the fo l low ing day. Commercial banks must charge the same rates for all transactions. In both areas, commercial banks are free to buy and sell for- eign exchange in the in terbank market w i thout restriction but must report all transac- t ions on a regular and on a da i ly basis to the NBBH and NBRS, respectively. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The NBBH administers foreign exchange control regulations in the Federation with l im i ted delegation to commercial banks. The NBRS oversees foreign exchange regula- t ion in the Repub l ika Srpska, although the commercial banks are responsible for imple- men t ing controls; the banks prov ide the NBRS w i th the documen ta t ion for all foreign exchange transactions on a regu lar basis. In addition, there is ra t ion ing of foreign ex- change for imports and payments abroad for services in each area; the respective M in is- tries of Foreign Trade (MFT), Health, and Finance must approve requests for foreign exchange. n.a. The NBBH imposes a l im it of DM 2,000 on the amount of cash that can be taken across international borders in any one tr ip, but there is no l im it on the frequency of trips. The NBRS imposes a l im it of DM 1,000 and also does not impose any l im i ts on the fre- quency of t r ips. On imports n.a. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 109 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Ind iv idua ls and exporters can hold foreign exchange in accounts with commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. Both the NBBH and the NBRS allow foreign exchange accounts with no requirement for documentation of the source of funds. Withdrawals for domestic transactions are unrestricted, but w i th- drawals for international transactions are restricted as described below. Foreign currency deposits held pr ior to the dissolution of Yugoslavia and centralized at the NBFRY are blocked. Held abroad n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. F inanc ing requirements for imports No. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All importers in the Federation must be registered w i th a local court and the M in is try of Foreign Trade (MFT). An importer can purchase foreign exchange to pay for foreign goods and services w i thout drawing on foreign exchange held in bank accounts. Foreign exchange is rationed, with pr ior i ty given to raw materials and essential items such as drugs. Also, the MFT classifies goods into three regimes: free; subject to quotas (for the protection of local industry); and banned (for health, env ironmen ta l, or m i l i ta ry rea- sons). In the Repub l ika Srpska, importers must use all foreign exchange held in bank accounts before they are entitled to purchase any further foreign exchange from a com- mercial bank or from the NBRS. Commercial banks ration foreign exchange, w i th pri- ority given to raw materials and goods that meet basic human needs. Restrictions are imposed on the importation of goods of wh ich domestic produc t ion is significant. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1 10 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Surrender requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system The NBBH requires that 15% of proceeds be surrendered to the NBBH within 48 hours of repatriation in exchange for Bosnian dinars at the official exchange rate. Exports by companies that work abroad are subject to a surrender requirement of only 5%. In the Republika Srpska, 20% of the proceeds must be surrendered immediately upon repatriation. Exporters in the Federation must be registered with the MFT and with a local court. Exporters in the Republika Srpska must be registered with the NBRS and a local court. The MFT imposes certain controls on the reimportation of some exports. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. The purchase of foreign exchange for business travel is unrestricted, subject to submis- sion of the appropriate documentation to commercial banks in the Republika Srpska. The NBBH limits foreign exchange for individual trips abroad to DM 2,000 a trip in- cluding airfare, but there is no limit on the frequency of trips. The NBRS limit is DM 1,000 and, similarly, no l im it on the frequency of trips applies. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Medical treatment abroad is on the priority list of foreign exchange for services but requires documentation from the Ministry of Health and from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in the Federation. In the Republika Srpska, such treatment requires documenta- tion from the Ministry of Health and a pro forma invoice from the provider of the medi- cal services. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds are subject to the same surrender requirements as proceeds from the export of goods. Payments of pensions from Germany were off ic ia l ly resumed in December 1995 follow- ing an agreement by which the NBBH provides documentation to Germany that the pensions are being paid by the commercial banks under its jur isd ic t ion to the workers concerned. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Portfolio investment abroad by Bosnian majority area residents requires permission from the NBBH. On capital market securities Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require MOF approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA in Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require MOF approval, but the transfer of funds to service the secu- rities issued is unrestricted. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The transactions need to be intermediated by a bank. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by residents No t if ica t ion to the MOF shou ld be g iven. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required, Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents n.a. n.a. Sale or issue abroad by residents Notification to the MOF should be given. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is requ ired. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Only ju r id ical persons can receive these credits; credit for more than 3 months must be registered w i th the NBBH. To residents from nonresidents Credits with ma tur i t ies longer than 3 months must be registered w i th the NBBH. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Only ju r id ical persons can receive these credits; credit for more than 3 mon ths must be registered w i th the NBBH. By residents to nonresidents Only pruden t ial regulations on banks apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment MOF approval is requ ired. Inward direct investment Investment abroad by Bosnian ma jo r i ty area residents requ ires permission from the NBBH. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transac t ions Fu ll repa tr ia t ion of capital is permitted, after compliance w i th tax laws. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is requ ired. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Registration w i th the NBBH is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Outstanding balances must be reported every 15 days to the NBBH. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Lenders must use the ir own foreign exchange fund s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the pula. The dual market arises from the operation of the foreign exchange risk-sharing scheme (FERSS), under which external loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990 (at end-1996, the scheme applied to 16 outstanding loans) are protected from exchange rate movements. Borrowers obtain foreign exchange to service those loans at exchange rates that result from applying the following scheme: risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4% are f u l ly borne by the borrower, wh i le the next 6% and the follow- ing 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government on ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, respectively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations in ex- cess of 15% are f u l ly borne by the government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. The exchange rate of the pula is determined with reference to a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the SDR and currencies of the country's major trading partners. The central bank deals in 4 currencies: the U.S. dollar, the South African rand, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and may be given in re- spect of the foreign currency proceeds derived from the exportation of goods for up to 6 months. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pu la account in Botswana. Botswana is a signatory to various bilateral trade agreements: China, Czechoslovakia, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Malawi, Romania, Russia, Yugoslavia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Yes. Yes. Botswana is a member of the SACU, wh ich allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on payments among the SACU countries. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. n.a. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 BOTSWANA Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) For practical/operational purposes, several administrative powers of the Bank of Botswana (BOB) have been delegated to commercial banks. No. No. Only authorized dealers are permitted to deal in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to export up to P 5,000. Residents may take out up to the equivalent of P 5,000 a trip. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they brought in with them. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents. These accounts are set up to facilitate foreign receipts and pay- ments for approved transactions, without having to convert foreign currency receipts into pula and vice versa, and to protect against fluctuations in exchange rates. Commer- cial banks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts in any currency at their discretion. Approval required n.a. Held abroad The BOB may authorize residents to maintain foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in cases where there is a proven legitimate commercial need for such facility, e.g., payment for imports. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 115 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments are permitted for a leg i t ima te commercial need. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Payments for imports of va lue exceeding P 10,000 requ ire supporting documentation before foreign exchange is released. Imports of certain goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and agricultural and horticultural products require permits regardless of the country of supp ly. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe, provided that they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for reexport. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. n.a. n.a. As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a common external tariff on imports from outside the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pu la account w i th in 6 mon ths of the date of exportation. Retention of export proceeds for up to 1 year to finance certain transactions may be permitted by the BOB on a case-by-case basis. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires permits. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prof i t /d iv idends On February 15, 1996, ind ica t ive l im i ts for current account transactions were abolished. However, authorized dealers must requ i re documentary evidence for paymen ts in excess of P 10,000 a transaction, to establish that the payment is for a legitimate purpose and a current account transaction. Interest payments may not exceed a rate of 2% a month on import-related payment charges. Authorized dealers may authorize remittances of interim d iv idends w i thout reference to the BOB for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange and may approve other remittances of d iv idends /prof i ts w i thout reference to the BOB subject to satisfactory suppo r t ing documen ta t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 BOTSWANA Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits A temporary resident employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad, without refer- ence to the BOB, his/her entire earnings net of tax. Self-employed temporary residents may remit their whole income net of tax. Pensions Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. Surrender requ irements The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident may retain for fu ture travel use is the equ iva lent of P 2,000 in currency or traveler's checks. Any excess amount must be surrendered w i th in 6 months of the date of return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket ins trumen ts In the case of both inward and internal portfolio investments, a shareholder or his nomi- nee may acquire an interest up to 5% of the company's paid-up stock. Total portfolio ho ld ings by nonresidents, inc lud ing nonresident-controlled companies, may not exceed 49% of the "free stock" (that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by non- resident direct investors) of a local company. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Purchases should be financed by funds from nonresident sources. Nonresident- controlled companies may make internal por tfo l io investments, which need not be financed w i th funds from external sources. n.a. Ind iv idua ls and business entities may invest abroad up to P 100,000 and P 1 m i l l ion, respectively, in offshore securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to buy the monetary instruments used by the BOB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Ind iv idua ls and business entities may invest abroad up to P 100,000 and P 1 m i l l ion, respectively, in offshore securities. n.a. n.a. Ind iv idua ls and business entities may invest abroad up to P 100,000 and P 1 m i l l ion, respectively, in offshore securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents BOTSWANA 1 17 Nonresident-controlled companies ( inc lud ing branches of foreign companies) can bor- row locally from all sources up to P 1 m i l l ion. Banks and credit institutions in Botswana are permitted to grant loans and other credit facilities to nonresident-controlled entities up to 4:1 debt-to-equity ratio (after the initial tranche of P 1 m i l l ion), without prior authorization from the BOB. Authorized dealers are permitted to receive loan funds from nonresident sources on behalf of the permanent resident customers up to an equivalent of P 100,000 and P 1 m i l l ion in respect of ind iv idua ls and companies, respectively, without any prior reference to the BOB. Interest on these loans is restricted to 1% above the relevant LIBOR. Nonresident-controlled companies ( inc lud ing branches of foreign companies) can bor- row locally from all sources up to P 1 m i l l ion. Banks and credit institutions in Botswana are permitted to grant loans and other credit facilities to nonresident-controlled entities up to 4:1 debt-to-equity ratio (after the initial tranche of P 1 m i l l ion), without prior authorization from the BOB. Authorized dealers are permitted to receive loan funds from nonresident sources on behalf of the permanent resident customers up to an equivalent of P 100,000 and P 1 m i l l ion in respect of ind iv idua ls and companies, respectively, without any prior reference to the BOB. Interest on these loans is restricted to 1% above the relevant LIBOR. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The same regulations as for credits apply. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Authorized dealers may make foreign currency available to ind iv idua ls and companies of amounts of up to P 100,000 and P 10 m i l l ion, respectively, for either acquiring inter- est in existing business ventures or establishing new business. Companies must have been in operation for 2 years and registered with the Commissioner of Taxes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Proceeds up to P 50 m i l l ion may be repatriated immediately, but the excess of that amount may be repatriated in tranches to be agreed upon with the BOB. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases l im i ted to P 100,000 for ind iv idua ls and P 10 m i l l ion for business entities are allowed. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to prior approval by the BOB. Maintenance of accounts abroad These accounts may only be maintained by authorized dealers. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Au thor ized dealers are permitted to make these loans to any customer that operates for- eign currency accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 BOTSWANA Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange A special dispensation has been made permitting dual listing of scripts of companies incorporated outside Botswana and listed in reputable international stock markets on an open register basis. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 10% of the core capital of a bank. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The l im it is 70% of the investor's assets outside Botswana, n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers February 15. The indicative limits for these transactions were abolished. However, authorized dealers must require documentary evidence to support payments in excess of P 10,000 a transaction to establish that the payment is for a legitimate purpose or current account transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the real. Dual. There is an official rate (also identified as "free" or commercial) and a tourist (or floating) rate. In both exchange markets, the rates are freely negotiated between the authorized dealers and their clients. Banks make arbitrage operations between both markets; spot transac- tions must be settled w i th in 2 wo rk ing days. The Central Bank of Brazil (CBB) estab- lished an adjustable band for the external value of the real at R$0.97-R$1.06 per U.S. dollar on January 30, 1996. Since February 19, 1997, the band has been R$1.05- R$1.14. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for specific currencies in the international market. Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies and brokers deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks. A tax on credit, foreign exchange operations, and insurance operations, or on transac- tions in financial instruments or securities (IOF) is levied on foreign exchange opera- tions effected for the payment of imports of services at a 25% rate. (On May 2, 1997, this tax was eliminated with effect on June 1, 1997.) The IOF is also assessed on the equ iva lent in reais of foreign exchange entering Brazil generated by or earmarked for foreign exchange loans, investments in fixed-income funds and in f inanc ial ins trumen ts and securities, interbank operations between foreign financial ins t i tu t ions and banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Brazil, and ho ld ings of short-term assets in Brazil by foreign residents. Exempt from this tax are settlements of foreign exchange operations contracted pr ior to August 10, 1995. On Apr il 24, 1997, the rate of the IOF assessed on fixed-income funds was reduced to 2% from 7%; the rate on real property investment funds was reduced to zero from 5%. On the same date, the IOF ceased to be levied on foreign loans contracted by residents, inc lud ing banks. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks are permitted to trade foreign exchange without restriction on a forward basis; such transactions must be settled w i th in 360 days. Banks may pay their clients a pre- m ium, corresponding to the expected variation of the domestic currency in relation to the currency subject to negotiation, by reason of forward operations. In addition, when an exchange contract for forward settlement is concluded, banks can prov ide short-term f inanc ing to exporters by p rov id ing domestic currency in advance, before or after the sh ipment of goods. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements w i th Hungary are made in the terms specified in the bilateral agreement. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich Brazil has no payment agreements and no special payment arrangements are made in U.S. dollars. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 BRAZIL Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Settlements with Hungary are made in U.S. dollars every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- pub l ic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made through special central bank accounts w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system o f t h e L A I A. The National Monetary Council is responsible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control regulations affecting foreign capital and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the CBB. The Ministry of Planning and Budget enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the pub l ic sector. Foreign trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for fo rmu la t ing gu ide l ines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance coordinates pub l ic sector import policy. Internat iona! security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) n.a. In accordance w i th UN sanctions There are restrictions imposed on Libya and Iraq. Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Foreign exchange, for payments of pr inc ipal and interest corresponding to med ium- and long-term debt in arrears over 180 days, had to be obtained in the floating-rate exchange market u n t il Ap r il 23, 1997, when it was required that foreign exchange for payments of debt in arrears be obtained in the same exchange market (free rate exchange market) through wh ich the payments shou ld have been made on due dates. There are 2 separate markets for gold transactions: the financial and commercial mar- kets. Over 50% of transactions occurs in the financial market, wh ich is regulated by the CBB. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1% financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish d ifferent rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The CBB and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets. Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBB and authorized ins t i tu t ions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the international market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or b r ing in domestic or foreign banknotes w i thout restriction but must declare to customs any amount over the equ iva lent of US$10,000. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 1 21 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ins t i tu t ions authorized to operate in the floating-rate market, tourism agencies, the Brazilian mail, credit card companies, and the Brazilian Reinsurance Institute (IRB) may open these accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Embassies, foreign delegations, and international organizations recognized by the Bra- z i l ian governmen t; fore ign companies of international transportation; foreign citizens in transit in the country; and Brazilian citizens l iv ing abroad may open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Financial institutions, nonfmanc ial national institutions, and natural and ju r id ical per- sons may hold these accounts. Deposits on these accounts are not convertible when the balance originated in a sale of foreign currency to a Brazilian bank. Blocked accounts No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments External f inanc ing for imports at terms in excess of 360 days must be registered in the "Financial Operations Registry," an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) w i th in 5 days. The t ime to f ina l ize anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Exchange contracts may be settled w i th in 180 days. Payment for financed imports at terms of up to 360 days must be contracted for fu tu re l iqu ida t ion 180 days in advance. All importers must be registered in the SECEX Importer and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported only by registered firms or persons, except for imports by the public sector (federal, state, and mun ic ipa l); imports by PETROBRAS (the Brazilian govern- ment oil enterprise) contracting or subcontracting firms for oil exploration through risk contracts; imports of medicine by persons up to US$5,000; imports of samples without commercial value, except for pharmaceutical products up to US$1,000; imports of products, except for those prohibited or under special control, by persons for personal consumption; and imports of goods considered as passengers' baggage for personal use. The import subsystem of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) was established on January 1, 1997. The subsystem allows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an import process d irec t ly through the in ter l inked computers of SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the fo l low ing three broad categories: (1) imports that do not requ ire pr ior administrative documentation, inc lud ing samples w i thout commercial va lue and certain educational materials; (2) imports that requ ire prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/ IMPORT; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change in the exchange market w i th in 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a l im it on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the pub l ic sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and pub l ic enterprises). Federal m in i s t r ies and subordinate agencies and pub l ic enterprises are required to subm i t, for approval by the M in is try of P lann ing and Budget, an annual inves tment program spec i fy ing the ir expected import requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 BRAZIL Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports are not subject to any domiciliation requirement, with the exception of imports originating or proceeding from countries under restrictions determined by the Security Council of the United Nations and imports of bovines in any form originating or pro- ceeding from the United Kingdom (Great Britain and North Ireland). The drafts or letters of credit must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or 2 working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Some imports require prior approval from the DECEX (i.e., an import license), which is usually given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items. As a rule, li- censes are valid for 60 days except for imports of custom-made capital goods. The Sec- retariat of Federal Revenue (SRF) issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed and customs clearance obtained. The importation of certain products requires approval of the Minis- try of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from im- port duties may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equivalent. Most imports are exempt from prior approval requirements. Imports of agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations, weapons, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or indus- trial policy are prohibited. Open general import licenses are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is restricted to their annexes, up to the existing remainder of issued open general licenses. In addition to imports under Brazilian concessions in the context of the LAIA agree- ment, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. Since May 1996, in accordance with WTO rules, quotas were imposed on imports of textiles from China, Hong Kong, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of Ch ina due to their effect on the domestic industry. In June 1996, the tariff rate on im- ports of toys was raised to 70% from 20%. In Ju ly 1996, with the inclusion of 18 items related to 8 products (such as rice, peaches, wine, and dye products), Brazil completed its exceptions list to the CET, which also included the increase to 65% from 30% for vehicles carrying more than 9 persons. Additionally in August 1996, other products, notably in the pu lp and paper sector, were excluded from the exceptions list. For auto- mobiles, transport vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles, tariffs were raised in January 1996 to 70%, wh i le the assemblers established in Brazil were favored with a special tariff of 35%. Later, in August 1996, a special tariff of 35% was established for imports from Japan, the EU, and South Korea for a period of 12 months and for a quota of 50,000 vehicles, distributed on a 3-monthly basis, according to the export performance of each country. The MERCOSUR customs un ion agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods ( inc lud ing a list of na- tional exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of ad- justments designed to bring them into line w i th the CET w i th in 5 or 6 years. The adjustment regime allows Brazil and Argentina to maintain tar iffs on some intra-area trade un t il January 1, 1999, and Paraguay and Uruguay to maintain some intra-area tar iffs un t il January 1, 2000. In April 1995, Brazil increased the number of goods on its list of national exceptions to MERCOSUR to 450 from 300. Taxes collected through the exchange system A financial transaction tax of 25% is levied on exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services. The levy was abolished effective June 1, 1997. State import monopo ly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements BRAZIL 123 Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. Advances on foreign exchange contracts are allowed for operations w i th terms up to 360 days, and the t ime for anticipatory settlements is 180 days. Also, for products con- sidered essential for the supply of the domestic market (fuel, mineral oils, chemical products, plastics, wood pastes, paper, cotton, l inen and synthetic thread, flat steel, and a lum inum) the max imum period is 180 days. Documentation requirements Documentation inc ludes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registration. Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Inspection is requ ired for commodities subject to standardization. Exports of w i ld animals and the ir hides, hair, plumes, or eggs in any form, jacaranda-da- Bahia wood, ipecacuanha plants, red and drab varieties of honey, and antiques of more than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods requ ire pr ior approval of the SECEX, inc lud ing those effected through bilateral accounts, exports w i thout exchange cover, exports on consignment, reexports, commodities for wh ich m in imum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requ ir ing prior authorization from govern- ment agencies. SISCOMEX integrates the activities related to the registration, monitor- ing, and control of foreign trade operations into a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem allows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the in ter l inked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cleft p ine woods, mahogany, Brazilian wal- nut, and v i ro la are subject to quotas. Furthermore, for exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, inc lud ing sugarcane syrup inappropr ia te for human consumption, to be e l ig ib le for exemption from the export tax of 40%, they must comply w i th the require- ment that domestic needs be satisfied, as authorized by the Indus try, Trade, and Tourism M in is ter and the Finance Minister. Exports of sawed or cleft p ine woods, mahogany, Brazilian wa lnu t, and v i ro la are sub- ject to quotas. For exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, inc lud ing sugarcane syrup inappropriate for human consumption, the e leg ib i l i ty for exemption from the ex- port tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quan t i ty exceeding do- mestic necessity authorized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism M in is ter and the Finance M in is ter. Besides imports under Brazilian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements in the LAIA member countries, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equ iva lent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passen- ger's baggage) free of import taxes. W i th the exception of exports of raw hides of cattle, horses, sheep, or any other raw hides, wh ich are subject to an export duty of 9%, exports are free from export du ty. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a zero-rate du ty. In September 1996, to pro- mote exports the rules for the application of a value-added tax (VAT) by the states were amended, exempting exports of primary and semimanufactured products. Also, th is exemption was extended to products used by companies to produce export goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for current inv i s ib les not covered by current regulations requ ire approval from the CBB's Exchange Department (DECAM) or the FIRCE. Payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in is tra t ive expenses, commissions, travel, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 BRAZIL medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, family maintenance and alimony, the use of credit cards abroad, and remittances of profits and dividends are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide test. Insurance requires prior approval from the IRB. Yes. There are established rules and surveillance procedures related to the operations freely conducted in the commercial market. Freight/insurance Prior approval Unloading/storage costs Adm in is tra t ive expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Prior approval Payments for medium- and long-term external debt are subject to prior approval by and registration with the CBB FIRCE, and the issue of a certificate of registration, wh ich is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, and fees, provided that due taxes are paid. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in the Foreign Investment Law of 1962, limits on income tax deductions are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees. Yes. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvest- ments, contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and adminis- trative assistance, are registered w i th the FIRCE. Profit remittances are exempt from w i thho ld ing for income tax purposes. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax l iab i l i ty to determine the taxable income, up to the l im it of 5% of gross receipts in the first 5 years of the company's operation; amounts exceeding th is l im it are considered profits. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Remittances for gamb l ing are not permitted. Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requ irements Exchange proceeds from current inv is ib les must be sold to the authorized banks at the p reva i l ing market rate. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The direct purchase of shares of Brazilian companies by nonresidents basically occurs through direct investments and portfolio investments made by institutional investors through the managers of the respective portfolios. Depositary receipts (DRs) constitute another method of acqu ir ing shares through stock exchanges. They prov ide a mechan ism for the placement of shares of Brazilian enterprises in the international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 125 markets. DRs are certificates representing a certain number of shares of a given enter- prise that confer upon their holders all of the rights inherent in said shares, inc lud ing dividends, bonuses, splits, and market-quoted value. A Brazilian sponsoring enterprise places its shares in the custody of an ins t i tu t ion headquartered in Brazil and authorized by the Securities Commission (CVM) to provide custody services for the specific pur- pose of DR issues (custodian institution). At the same time, an institution abroad (the depositary bank) issues the corresponding DRs based on the securities held in custody in Brazil. Investments effected through the DR mechanism are exempt from income tax on capital gains. The rate applicable to earnings obtained in Brazil is 10%, as these are investments in variable-income assets. In addition, there are specific regulations for investments in the MERCOSUR environment. As for other securities, such as debentures and other fixed-income securities, the regula- tions do not provide for direct purchases by nonresidents, although they may be effected indirectly through investment funds. Resources of societies, portfolios, and investment funds established by Resolution No. 1289 (1987) were allowed to be applied in deben- tures convertible to equities. Securities portfolios held in the country by foreign institu- tional investors (i.e., pension funds, nonprof it institutions, and insurance companies) must be managed by an institution operating in the country and authorized by the CVM. The foreign investor has the option of applying for 2 types of registration for the portfo- lio: an "individual account" or an "omnibus account." The ind iv idual account registra- tion allows the investor to operate in its own name only, wh i le the omnibus account registration allows the account holder to operate only on behalf of third parties, known in the market as "passengers." The management ins t i tu t ion is responsible for the registration of foreign investment with the CBB, foreign exchange settlements, the collection of taxes, portfolio bookkeep- ing, and the safekeeping of documents related to the portfolio. There is no l im it or hold period for financial transfers resulting from inflows, flowbacks, and profits or d iv idends from capital du ly registered w i th the CBB, provided that the accounting rules and tax laws are complied w i th. The transfers must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, with guaranteed ac- cess to the free foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency. To promote greater integration of the capital markets of the signatory countries of the Treaty of Asuncion (MERCOSUR), an additional mechanism was established in 1992 to attract foreign resources targeting the Brazilian stock market. Natural and ju r id ical per- sons resident or dom ic i led in Asuncion Treaty countries may invest freely in Brazilian stock exchanges, w i thout the necessity of trading through investment funds or portfo- lios. The Brazilian market may be accessed directly by contacting a member ins t i tu t ion of the Brazilian securities d is t r ibu t ion system, or indirectly through the intermediation of an ins t i tu t ion in the securities d is t r ibu t ion system of the investor's country. The Brazilian intermediary ins t i tu t ion, through wh ich the foreign investor trades, repre- sents the investor vis-a-vis the Brazilian authorities w i th respect to the operational, ex- change, and tax aspects, and in p rov id ing informa t ion on the operations executed. These investments may be made in U.S. dollars, in the currency of the country of or ig in of the investment, or in reais. Operations invo lv ing the repatriation of capital are exempt from income tax w i thho ld ing. Earnings from var iab le- income investments are subject to a 10% income tax w i thho ld- ing and those from fixed-income investments to a 15% income tax w i thho ld ing. Remit- tances of capital gains are sub ject to income tax at a rate of 15%. The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR env i ronment through share custody certificates or d irec t ly. There is no regu la t ion in force a l low ing the sale of other foreign securities in the country. Inward and outward remittances associated w i th investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct fore ign exchange operations in the floating exchange rate market. There are no l im i ts, authorizations, or hold periods for the investments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 BRAZIL Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Brazilian natural and jur id ical persons may make investments through the purchase on Brazilian stock exchanges of custody certificates representing shares issued by compa- nies headquartered in Asuncion Treaty countries. These securities may be purchased through foreign investment funds or through direct equity investments in enterprises abroad. In addition to the rules already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock exchanges by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective invest- ments can be made through Brazilian investment companies and funds. Issues of securities abroad by residents are accorded the same treatment as direct exter- nal borrowing operations. Thus, exchange contracts involving the entry of foreign cur- rencies must be authorized in advance by the CBB. Fund transfers associated with issues of securities abroad are subject to the conditions of the respective certificates of regis- tration issued by the CBB, the conditions of which are set forth in the contract between the debtor and the creditor. Portfolio investment by foreign investors in fixed-income instruments is restricted to 2 classes of fixed-income funds: the fixed-income funds that are subject to a transaction tax of 7% and the privatization funds that are subject to a transaction tax of 5%. As of Apr il 24, 1997, the transaction tax for fixed-income funds was reduced to 2% and that for privatization funds was eliminated. The regulated forms of collective investment in local shares by nonresidents are the investment companies, funds, and diversified stock portfolios. For collective invest- ments in other securities, the forms provided for in the regulations are the foreign capital fixed-income funds, privatization funds, and, as of February 8, 1996, real estate invest- ment funds and emerging enterprises investment funds. The IOF is assessed on the latter 2 types of investments at rates ranging from zero to 10%. Their establishment, as well as changes in their bylaws, must be authorized in advance by the CVM, except for the foreign capital fixed-income funds. The constitution of those funds must be announced in wr i t ing to the CBB w i th in a maximum of 5 days. The CBB may determine changes in the regulations of the fixed-income funds. Funds entering the country are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of controlling foreign capital and fu tu re remit- tances abroad of cash d iv idends or bonuses and capital gains realized in the sale of the company's shares. Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, with guaranteed access to the free exchange rate market to purchase foreign currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no regulations on these operations. Purchase abroad by residents There are no regulations on these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Foreign investment funds are organized in the form of open-end mu tual funds. Partici- pation is limited exclusively to natural and ju r id ical persons and to funds and other col- lective investment entities resident, domiciled; or headquartered in Brazil. Foreign investment funds may be managed by a multipurpose bank, commercial bank, invest- ment bank, brokerage firm, or securities distributor under the supervision and direct responsibility of the manager of the institution. A m in imum of 60% of the f u n d 's investments must be in securities representative of the federal government's external debt and a max imum of 40% in other securities traded in the international market. These securities must be kept abroad in a custodian account in the fund 's name. The fund is authorized to conduct operations in organized derivative markets abroad solely for the purpose of hedging the securities making up the respective portfolio. Inward and outward transfers of resources through foreign investment funds are subject to registration w i th the CBB for purposes of monitoring and controlling Brazilian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents BRAZIL 127 investment, as we ll as the respective income, investment repatriation, and capital gains. Transfers are processed in foreign currency through the free exchange rate market. Earnings from the redemption of shares of foreign investment funds are subject to a 15% income tax to be withheld by the managing institution of the foreign investment funds on the date of the redemption payment or credit and paid w i th in 3 work ing days of the 2-week period fo l low ing the occurrence of the taxable event. Foreign capital fixed-income funds may conduct operations in organized derivative markets in the country, inc lud ing fu tures operations carried out in markets managed by stock exchanges or commodities and fu tures exchanges. The resources of investors from Asuncion Treaty countries may be invested in the domestic options and fu tures market. The use of funds entering the country for the purchase of fixed-income securities and in operations carried out in derivatives markets is prohibited. There are no restrictions on investments in derivatives operations in Brazil by recipients of direct investments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations w i th f inanc ial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. The costs of such operations must conform to the parameters in force in the international market. The CBB may, at its sole discre- tion, require foreign exchange compensation sufficient to eliminate the effects of opera- tions not in l ine with the established objective or executed outside those parameters, w i thout prejudice to other sanctions that may apply. Payments and receipts in foreign currency scheduled or expected to occur in the future in connection with commercial or f inanc ial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Hedging operations, however, are l im i ted at any t ime (1) in interest rate and currency swaps, to the amount of the unde r ly ing commercial or financial rights and obligations rema in ing in foreign cur- rency; and (2) in commodities swaps, open positions are l im i ted to the physical vo lume of the commodity to be exported, imported, or traded in the domestic market. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations as for purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Only 2 forms of credits are permitted: (1) the Exporting F inanc ing Program (PROEX), wh ich is f inanced w i th national budget funds. PROEX resources may not be used to establish any fac i l i ty for foreign pub l ic or private entities, insofar as f inanc ing is granted on a case-by-case basis, because credit may not be made available to nonresidents for use in several installments spread over a period of t ime; and (2) the Machinery and Equ ipment Export F inanc ing Program (FINAMEX), wh ich is operated through agent banks by the Special Agency for Industrial Financing (FINAME). It provides funds so that f inanc ial institutions (FINAME agents) can grant loans to national exporters at rates and on terms similar to those available to the ir foreign competitors. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits w i th terms in excess of 360 days must be authorized by and regis- tered with the FIRCE of the CBB. Prepayment of exports must be authorized by the CBB prior to the entry of the foreign exchange into Brazil. Operations governed by these regulations have a 361-day m in i- mum term and are exempt from income tax, and from the tax on credit, exchange, insu r- ance operations, and securities operations. The CBB authorizes and registers external f inanc ing for imports of capital goods, intermediate goods, raw materials, and other goods and merchandise, regardless of the type of importer or the destination of the mer- chandise, if the operations have a term of at least 1 year. In private sector import operations w i thout the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a pub l ic sector entity, the f inanc ing terms —interest rate, spread, down payment —are freely contracted by the parties. In the case of a pub l ic sector entity and in cases ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 BRAZIL Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment invo lv ing the direct or ind irect surety or guarantee of a pub l ic sector entity, interest rates may not exceed the LIBOR rate for the reference period, plus specified max imum spreads. Requests for authorization may be approved by the CBB, as there is no legal impedi- ment to doing so. The proceeds of f inanc ial credits granted to residents must be kept w i th in the country, and the resources must be used for investment in economic activities. Exchange con- tracts invo lv ing the entry of foreign exchange in connection with borrowing are subject to pr ior approval by the CBB. Remittances of loan, credit, or f inanc ing interest in excess of the interest rate indicated in the respective contract and registration are considered as pr inc ipal payments. A 15% income tax rate is levied on remittances of interest and other income associated w i th foreign loan operations, except when bilateral agreements to avoid dual taxation specify another rate or when the borrower or lender is tax exempt. The federal government, states, mun ic ipa l i t ies, the federal district, and their founda t ions and agencies, as well as multilateral organizations and foreign government agencies located abroad, are exempted. Guarantees by non fmanc ial ju r id ical persons in credit operations for the ir foreign sub- sidiaries are subject to pr ior authorization by the CBB. Exchange operations invo lv ing financial transfers abroad in execution of bank sureties and guarantees in question are carried out exclusively through the floating exchange rate market when such guarantees relate or are l inked to (1) imports and other foreign cur- rency operations not covered by certificates issued by the CBB, or by a facility; and (2) repatriation of amounts entering the country as advance payment for exports, in the event of nonsh ipment of the goods. Exchange operations invo lv ing financial transfers associated with the execution of pay- ment guarantees for imports, loans, or external financing covered by certificates of authorization or registration issued by the CBB are processed through the free exchange rate market. There are no restrictions on guarantees provided by nonresidents to residents in connec- t ion w i th fore ign capital registered w i th the CBB, subject to the presentation of a formal statement by the foreign entity fu rn i sh ing the guarantee. Data concerning the guarantee and the costs incurred in ob ta in ing it are included in the Certificate of Authorization or Registration of the guaranteed operation. If costs are incurred in obtaining the guarantee, the credit operation must be authorized in advance by the CBB. There are no specific regulations governing other operations. In the event of execution of a guarantee, the beneficiary must arrange for the entry of the corresponding foreign exchange directly through the banking system. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may transfer up to US$5 m i l- l ion for each f inanc ial group, inc lud ing all remittances in the last 12 months, and they are basically requ ired to keep on f i le and make available to the CBB the documen ts men t ioned in said regulations. Transfers exceeding the established l im it must first be subm i t ted to the CBB no less than 30 days in advance of the exchange contract, and, regardless of the amount, exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an entity be long ing to the direct or indirect pub l ic administration are subject to pr ior authorization by the CBB. In th is case, remittances must be processed through the free exchange rate market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment BRAZIL 129 Brazilian enterprises may invest in financial institutions abroad on the floating exchange rate market. However, such investments by nonfmanc ial enterprises require prior ap- proval of the CBB and must meet some specified conditions. Investments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior opinion of the CBB's Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy several conditions, especially with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, t ime in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Applications for the registration of foreign direct investment and technology are not subject to prior authorization, except for foreign investments via the contribution of goods. Investments in commercial banks are limited to 30% of the voting capital, if there are restrictions on the operations of Brazilian banks in the markets where their main offices are located. The establishment in Brazil of new branches of financial insti- tutions domiciled abroad is proh ib i ted. Also, any increase in the percentage of equity participation in f inanc ial institutions headquartered in Brazil by natural or ju r id ical per- sons resident or dom ic i led abroad is proh ib i ted, except for authorizations resu l t ing from international agreements, from reciprocity arrangements, or in the interest of the Brazil- ian government as expressed by presidential decree. In the case of highway fre ight transportation, except for companies established before Ju ly 11, 1980, to which d ifferent rules apply, there are limitations on equity participa- tion of up to one-fifth of the voting capital stock. In future capital increases by sub- scription, however, such entities are required to pay up to four-f if ths of said increases in ordinary registered shares through national underwriters. Foreign participation in journa l is t ic and sound and image broadcasting enterprises is prohibited. Direct or ind irect equity participation by foreign enterprises or capital in the health care sector in Brazil is also prohibited, except in special cases. The registration of foreign investment through the verification of patent or trademark rights as a means of pay ing in capital is subject to pr ior recording of the deed of transfer or assignment of the rights to use the patent or trademark with the National Ins t i tu te of Industrial Property, and is limited to the va lue stated in the latter. The investment is registered in the currency of the country where the beneficiary is domiciled or headquar- tered, and must be requested from the CBB by the party receiving the investment. Foreign investments via the contribution of goods without exchange cover are subject to prior authorization by the CBB and the SECEX. The goods, machinery, or equ ipment must be used in the production of goods or the provision of services, must have a use ful life of more than 5 years, and must be part of the enterprise's assets for at least 5 years. Investments th rough currency transfers are not subject to prior authorization. This type of investment may take place through the free exchange rate market to pay up the sub- scribed capital of enterprises already operating in Brazil, to organize a new enterprise, or to acquire an interest in an existing Brazilian enterprise. Branches of foreign companies may be opened, subject to the prior issuance of an authorizing decree by the president of the Republic. A branch is considered an office of a foreign enterprise. Enterprises established in Brazil with any degree of foreign equity participation are not covered by this restriction. The entry of resources associated with the investment must be processed th rough a bank ing ins t i tu t ion authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Remittances of proceeds must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Transfers for the purchase of residential or commercial real estate abroad may be made through the floating exchange rate market. The purchase of real estate in Brazil is not restricted. Foreign investments in the capital of Brazilian enterprises ( inc lud ing resources to be used for investment in the capital of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 BRAZIL Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits real estate enterprises) by parties resident, domiciled, or headquartered abroad are unre- stricted and are not subject to prior authorization by the CBB. The exchange occurs on the free exchange rate market. Foreign borrowing for terms exceeding 360 days is subject to authorization and regis- tration with the CBB. The CBB requires that banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations obtain facilities abroad for terms of up to 360 days to extend com- mercial credit in Brazil. The National Bank for Economic and Social Development, private investment or devel- opment banks, commercial banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, and multipurpose banks with a commercial portfolio (if authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations and holding an investment or development portfolio) are permitted to contract loans abroad to be onlent to enterprises in Brazil by issuing commercial pa- per. They may also borrow abroad by issuing floating-rate notes, fixed-rate notes, floating-rate certificates of deposit, fixed-rate certificates of deposit, government bonds, and private bonds. Financial institutions in the National Rural Credit System may borrow abroad to finance costs, investment, or the marketing of agricultural and livestock production. Banks may raise funds abroad to be onlent to natural or juridical persons to finance the construction or purchase of new real estate. Banks authorized to conduct foreign ex- change operations may use facilities contracted for terms exceeding 360 days with banks abroad to finance imports by resident enterprises. The public sector may engage in ex- ternal credit operations for the settlement of internal debt. In April 1997, the rate of the IOF applied to lending operations in foreign currency was reduced to zero from a range up to 3%. There are no legal provisions authorizing banks or credit institutions headquartered in Brazil to grant financial loans to nonresidents or to purchase securities issued abroad for terms exceeding 360 days. This restriction does not apply to the foreign branches of Brazilian banks with regard to commercial credit. All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency, are nu ll and void. Consequently, banks are prohibited from granting foreign currency loans within Brazil. However, this restric- tion does not apply to the onlending of external foreign currency loans. Domestic operations in foreign currencies are prohibited. n.a. n.a. L im i ts d i f fer according to the exchange market in which the transactions take place as follows: (1) banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the free ex- change rate market may hold long positions of up to US$5 m i l l ion, including all cur- rencies and all of each bank's branches. Amounts exceeding this ceiling must be deposited w i th the CBB in U.S. dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is contingent upon each bank's adjusted net worth; and (2) on the floating exchange rate market, the fo l low ing ceilings have been set: (a) For licensed banks, the long exchange position is US$1 m i l l ion (any amount in ex- cess of this ceiling must be deposited with the CBB), and the short exchange position is contingent on the ins t i tu t ion's adjusted net worth; (b) For licensed dealers (brokerage firms; securities distributors; and credit, financing, and investment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange position is US$500,000 and no short exchange position is allowed; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 131 (c) Licensed tourism agencies do not maintain exchange positions, but they are requ ired to observe the da i ly operational ceiling (cash) of US$200,000; any surpluses must be sold to licensed banks or dealers; and (d) Providers of tourist accommodations may have cash ho ld ings in foreign currencies of up to US$50,000 to meet their operational needs; any surpluses must be sold to li- censed banks or dealers. Ins t i tu t ional investors may invest up to 10% of the ir technical reserves in investment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of the ir reserves, together w i th other investments up to the same ceiling, in shares of open com- panies, pub l ic ly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open companies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquar- tered in Asunc ion Treaty countries. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Exchange arrangements Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Exchange arrangements Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Capital transact ions Changes During 1996 January 30. The CBB set the adjustable band for the external va lue of the real at R$0.97-R$1.06 per U.S. dollar. April 1. Import duties were revised for several national exceptions: electronic products, bicycles, and motorcycles to 35% from 70%; wh i te l ine products, 30%; footwear to 40% from 44%-56%; du t ies were e l im ina ted on products considered important for indus tr ial and technological development. June L Quotas were imposed on imports of textiles originating from China, Hong Kong, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China. September 13. Rules for application of the VAT by states were amended, exempting exports of primary and semimanufactured goods. This was extended to imports used by the export production companies. February 8. Collective investment by nonresidents in local shares was permitted for real estate investment funds and emerging enterprises investment funds. The IOF is assessed on these transactions at rates ranging from zero to 10%. Changes During 1997 February 19. The adjustable band for the external va lue of the real was revised to R$1.05-R$1.14 per U.S. do l lar. April 23. Foreign exchange for payments of debt arrears must be obtained in the same exchange market (free rate exchange market) through wh ich the payments should have been made on due dates. January 1. An import subsystem, SISCOMEX/IMPORT, was introduced, wh ich allows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an import process d i rec t ly through the in te r l inked computers of SECEX, customs, and the CBB. May 2. The application of the IOF, at a rate of 25%, to exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services was d iscon t inued. April 24. The IOF fixed-income fund was reduced to 2% from 7% and that for real property investment funds was e l im ina ted. The IOF ceased to be levied on IOF loans contracted by residents, inc lud ing banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Brunei dollar is issued by the Brunei Currency Board (BCB) only against payments in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of Singapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each other's cur- rency and have agreed to mutual exchange, at par and without charge. They have in- structed their banks to do the same with their customers. Any excess currency is repatriated regularly, w i th the issuing institution bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other country's currency. The BCB deals only in Singapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, w i th no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes daily buy ing and selling rates for electronic transfers and sight drafts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quotations for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei must apply these rates for transactions w i th the general pub l ic for amounts up to B$ 100,000. Ex- change rates for amounts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dollar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in Brunei Darussalam. However, as a result of the CIA, foreign exchange risk can be hedged in terms of Singapore dollars by resorting to facilities available in that country, inc lud ing foreign currency fu tures and options traded on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange (SIMEX), over-the- counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no formal exchange controls, but the Ministry of Finance retains responsibil- ity for exchange control matters. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 133 Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Darussalam and gold dealers and jewelers trade specifically authorized by the Ministry of Finance may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 10% import duty is levied on the importation of gold jewe l ry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into fore ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for impor ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for nature conservation, health, safety, security, or re l ig ious reasons. Except for cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, most imports are subject to tariff rates of up to 200%. Some 70% of items ( inc lud ing basic foodstuffs, construction, and educa- tional materials) are zero rated. Most other goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%, 15%, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM or 20%. Fireworks are subject to a 30% duty, wh i le automobiles are subject to duties ranging between 40% and 200%, depending on engine size. In accordance with the CEPT scheme for the AFTA, Brunei Darussalam w i ll eliminate its tariffs on imports from other ASEAN members by 2003, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently excluded from the plan. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kero- sene, rice, salt, and sugar. There are no export taxes. Yes. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments The provision of foreign exchange for these payments is subject to a bona fide test. In- terest payments are subject to a 20% w i thho ld ing tax. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions There are no sectoral restrictions, but activities relating to national food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local participation. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and indus- tries that solely export may be fu l ly foreign owned. Joint ventures are particularly en- couraged in export-import industries and activities supporting such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Bruneian citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 135 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Bruneian citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, inc lud ing sites destined for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aquaculture. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. No. No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Bulgaria is the lev. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative The exchange rate of the lev is determined on the basis of a weighted average of trans- actions in the interbank market du r ing the previous trading day. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from countries with which Bulgaria maintains bilateral agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agree- ments. Transactions are generally settled through clearing accounts. Balances in these accounts (annual and mu l t iyear) are generally to be settled in goods dur ing the 6 mon ths after the agreement has been terminated; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. There are arrangements with Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Guinea, the Islamic Re- pub l ic of Iran, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Syria. Bulgaria has outstand- ing transferable rub le accounts with Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, and Romania. Barter agreements and open accounts There are agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, India, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Romania, and Tanzania. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Bulgarian Na t ional Bank (BNB), authorized banks, customs administration, border guards, and port offices. Yes. No. The MOF controls the acquisition, possession, processing, and disposal of gold, silver, and p la t inum. The BNB is the only ins t i tu t ion entitled to purchase, sell, and hold gold. All domestic transactions for indus t r ial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the BNB. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on the ir 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 137 own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in precious metals. Resident ind iv idu- als may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. However, in September 1996 the Constitutional Court declared the ban on trade unconstitutional. The amount of gold and items of jewelry that residents may import is limited. Nonresi- dents are permitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade it. Nonresi- dents must have permission from the MOF, the BNB, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and p la t inum products. The BNB is the only institution entitled to import or export gold. Residents and nonresidents may take out banknotes and coins up to lev 10,000; permis- sion from the BNB is required for larger amounts. Residents may take out up to the equivalent of $1,000 w i thout restriction, from $1,000 to $10,000 upon presentation of a statement of account by a bank, and more than $10,000 with the permission of the BNB. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in banknotes and coins up to lev 10,000; permis- sion from the BNB is required to import larger amounts. The amount must be declared, and nonresidents may take out unspent foreign currency notes upon departure. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may ma in ta in these accounts in Bulgaria. Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. The cred i t ing and debiting of foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations. Transfers abroad may be made w i th permis- sion from the MOF and the BNB. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are allowed, but pr ior permission from the BNB and MOF is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. The cred i t ing and deb i t ing of these accounts are not subject to any regulations. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 BULGARIA Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of tobacco products, coal, petroleum, livestock and meat, dairy products, certain grains, textiles, ferrous metals and alloys, and flat glass must be registered. Imports of some sensitive goods are subject to registration at the Ministry of Trade. Special licenses are required for transactions under barter and clearing arrangements and for imports of military hardware and related technologies, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and hazardous materials, crafts and antiques, Pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesticides, flour, unbottled alcohol, intellectual property, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted w i th in 2 working days. Negative list Imports of certain goods are restricted for health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Import tariffs range from 5% to 55% and are calculated on a transaction-value basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. Certain energy products, Pharmaceuticals, and facilities for environmental protection are exempt from customs duties or are subject to a reduced rate. An import surcharge of 5% was introduced in June 1996, which is to be gradually reduced and eliminated in 2000. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated w i th in 1 month. Surrender requirements Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. F in an c ing requirements No. Documentat ion requirements Exports of tobacco products, coal, petroleum, livestock and meat, dairy products, certain grains, textiles, ferrous metals and alloys must be registered. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Special licenses are required for transactions under barter and clearing arrangements, for exports proceeds to be received in leva, exports of military hardware and related tech- nologies, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and hazardous materials, crafts and antiques, pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesticides, flour, unbottled alcohol, intellectual property, jewe lry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted w i th in 2 working days. Exports of metal scraps and wheat are prohibited, the latter un t il end- September 1997. Yes. Exports under government credits and exports under voluntary export restraint agree- ments are subject to quotas. There are also quotas on exports of certain wheat products and metal scrap. Export taxes are levied on certain types of timber, hides, wool, sunflower oil, grain, and certain copper products; taxes are quoted in U.S. dollars but paid in leva. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 139 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Payments for travel Payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, commissions, travel, medical costs, subscriptions and membership fees, consult- ing and legal fees, and pensions are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Payments are processed by banks against authorization by the MOF, a credit contract, and documentation on the amount transferred. No. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted w i thout restriction. Allow- ances for tourist travel are limited to the leva equivalent of $2,000 a person a year for people w i thout foreign currency deposits but could be greater in all bona fide requests. Resident holders of foreign exchange deposits may use balances on these deposit ac- counts w i thout restriction. Quantitative limits Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Approval of the MOF, in coordination w i th the Ministry of Health, is required. The l im it is $10,000 a year. All amounts in excess of this l im it requ i re the permission of the MOF. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Pensions Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Fam i ly maintenance/alimony Yes. Yes. Yes. These remittances are not exp l ic i t ly regulated but have been treated imp l ic i t ly as trans- fers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports, and therefore requ ire prior per- mission from the BNB in consultation w i th the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. These remittances are not exp l ic i t ly regulated but have been treated imp l ic i t ly as trans- fers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports, and therefore requ ire pr ior per- m iss ion f rom the BNB in consultation w i th the MOF. Prior approval Credit card use abroad Yes. No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated w i th in 1 mon th. Surrender requ iremen ts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BULGARIA Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Investments by nonresidents must be registered with the Securities and Stock Exchange Commission. Purchase abroad by residents Prior permission of the BNB, in consultation with the MOF, is required. Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts No. Controls on credit operat ions Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Off ic ial credits extended to and received from abroad require permission of the BNB in consultation w i th the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments must be registered with the MOF and require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct investments are guar- anteed against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign f i rms are granted the same status as domestic f irms. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases must be declared to the MOF. Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Prior permission of the MOF is required. Nonresidents may not purchase or own land. If they inher it land, they must dispose of it w i th in a 3-year period. Sale locally by nonresidents Prior permission of the MOF is required. Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other cred it in s t i tu t ions Bo r row ing abroad Licensed banks may borrow abroad w i thout the authorization of the BNB. Licensed commercial banks, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guarantee from the government of Bu lgar ia and if the ir borrowing complies w i th the pruden t ial regulations set up by the BNB. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 Arrangemen ts for paymen ts and receipts April 30. The b i la te ral payment arrangement w i th Bangladesh became inoperative. September 8. The regu la t ions on the export and import of fore ign exchange banknotes were l ibera l ized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 141 Imports and import payments June 4. A 5% import surcharge was imposed; it w i ll be gradually reduced un t il e l im i- nated in 2000. Exports and export proceeds October 15. The ban on wheat exports was extended th rough end-September 1997. December 1. Bulgaria jo ined the WTO. Capital transactions December 12. The Law on Business Ac t iv i ty of Foreign Persons and Protection of For- eign Investments was passed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burk ina Faso is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on certain lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the currency of payment stipulated in the contract and are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Nonrenewable forward exchange contracts may be concluded for 1 mon th. For certain products, the maturity period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for 3 months. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Burk ina Faso is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected either through correspondent banks in France or the coun- try concerned in the currencies of those countries, or through foreign accounts in francs in French francs or other currencies of the Operations Account area. Yes. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The approval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and the opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, which is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, or jud ic ial agents, any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 143 All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through author- ized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Settlements w i th a country out- side the Operations Account area must be forma l ly approved by the customs adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th preimport declarations (DPIs) issued for all import and export operations invo lv ing goods valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Restructuring of arrears of debts to Libya, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU is in progress. n.a. Imports of gold require pr ior MOF authorization, wh ich is seldom granted. Exempt from th is requ i rement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manufac tured articles con ta in ing m inor quan t i t ies of gold (such as gold- f i l l ed or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by trave lers of gold objects up to a com- b ined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of gold have been liberalized since May 1996. The monopoly granted to the Comptoir bu rk inabe des metaux precieux has been extended for a trans i t ional per iod of 1 year from May 1996. The exportation of CFA banknotes by non res ident travelers is not p roh ib i ted. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are s t i ll suspended. In add i t ion, sh ipmen ts of BCEAO bankno tes among au thor ized in termed iar ies and the ir correspon- dents situated ou ts ide the WAEMU are o f f i c i a l ly p roh ib i ted. The reexportation of fore ign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceil- ings requ ires documen ta t ion demonstrating either the importation of the fore ign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or th rough the use of nonres ident deposits lodged in local banks. Yes. Res iden ts and non res iden ts may b r ing in any amount of fore ign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins) of coun tr ies outside the Operations Account area. Residents b r ing ing in fo re ign bankno tes and foreign currency t rave le r 's checks exceeding the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an au tho r ized in termed iary bank w i t h in 8 days. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 Held domestically Held abroad BURKINA FASO The ho ld ing of these accounts is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The ho ld ing of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations prohibit any transfer tend ing to develop a resident's foreign holdings, unless approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l i g i b i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The ho ld ing of these accounts is not expressly covered by regulations. In practice, based on an interpretation of the regulations, such ho ld ings require the prior approval of the MOF. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currencies on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required for quality and price. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list Negative list A technical import visa (certiflcat de conformite) is required for sugar, insecticides, wheat and cereal flour, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, vegetable oil, m i lk, electri- cal batteries, food preserves, and rice. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the MOF, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Bu rk ina Faso has concluded a customs un ion or free-trade-area agreement. Import licenses were eliminated and replaced with DPIs issued for all import operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Imports of ivory and f ish ing nets w i th a mesh smaller than 3 square centimeters are restricted. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports, w i th a few exceptions, are subject to customs duties of 5%; the rates on cereals range from 4% to 26%, p lus a statistical tax of 4%. All imports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a solidarity communal levy of 1%, and imports of certain goods that are also locally produced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 10% to 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 145 Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of the date on wh ich payments fall due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. No. n.a. n.a. All export transactions of more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an author- ized intermediary bank. Export licenses were eliminated and replaced with preexport declarations (DPEs) issued for exports valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to special regulations. Export taxes Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical duty of 3%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval is required only for those foreign exchange allowances in excess of the ind ica t ive l im i ts. Such approval is granted after a bona fide test. For travel outside the franc zone, the l im i ts are the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion a per- son a tr ip for tourist travel, w i th no l im it on the number of trips or age distinctions, and the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 a person a day for business travel over a period of 1 month. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. The l im i ts are those applicable to tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bonaflde test n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 BURKINA FASO Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 50,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Burk ina Faso and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. There are no restrictions on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on which payment falls due is not more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their desti- nation. There are no restrictions on credits in connection with services rendered. In these cases, no dead l ine is set for the date on which payment falls due. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, subject to the documentation requirement. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization subject to the approval of the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the MOF, substantiated by documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment BURKINA FASO 147 There are no restrictions on these credits, and the funds needed to service them must be transferred from the outside through an authorized intermediary bank. However, if such transactions take place between a direct investment company established in Bu rk ina Faso and its parent company situated abroad, the transactions are regarded as d irect investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. The same regulations as for financial credits apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion is subject to MOF approval. After settlement, the l iqu ida t ion or sale must be reported to the MOF and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents MOF pr ior approval is requ i red. Sale locally by nonres iden ts The same regu la t ions as for the l iqu ida t ion of d irect inves tment app ly. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of non res ident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Art ic les of Agreement Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds MOF approval is requ ired. Yes. Yes. Monetary regu la t ions make no d is t inc t ion between resident deposit accounts, nonresi- dent deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Yes. No. Changes During 1996 June 1. Bu rk ina Faso accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Articles of Agreement. May 30. Exports of gold were liberalized. May 30. Import licenses were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th DPIs for imports va lued at CFAF 500,000 and over. September 25. The list of imports for which a technical import visa (certificat de con- formite) is required was reduced. May 30. Export licenses were eliminated and replaced w i th DPEs for exports va lued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Payments for i n v i s i b le transac t ions and current transfers April 24. Foreign exchange allowances for travel outside the franc zone were increased to CFAF 1 m i l l i on for tourist travel and CFAF 200,000 for business trave l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Bu rundi is the B u r u n di franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C la s s i f ica t ion Pegged Exchange tax Exchange sub s idy Forward exchange market The Bu rundi franc is pegged to a basket of currencies of Bu rund i 's main trad ing part- ners. Exchange rates for 18 currencies and for 2 un i ts of account —the ECU and un it of account of the COMESA —are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (BRB) on the basis of the Bu rundi franc-U.S. dollar rate and the transaction value of these cur- rencies and un i ts in terms of the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on the ir own account and on behalf of their customers at rates w i th in maximum margins of ±1% of the m idd le rate established by the BRB. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to borrow foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Exporters of coffee are also allowed to borrow foreign exchange through the ir banks or from the ir customers for purposes of crop f inanc ing and hedg ing against ex- change risks. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade with the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements with these countries are effected through a clearing process, w i th balances paid in SDRs. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Bu rundi must pay the ir hotel b i l ls by selling convertible currencies or by us ing a credit card. Payment in Bu rundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or ind iv idual has assumed respons ib i l i ty w i th prior authorization from the BRB and in the case of nationals of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo and Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the CEPGL. There are trade agreements w i th the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo and Rwanda. Regional agreements exist w i th eastern and southern African countries. Clearing agreements exist w i th members of COMESA and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and fore ign trade is vested in the BRB; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to 6 authorized banks. In terna t ional security restrictions No. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 149 Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Holders of gold m in ing permits issued by the ministers responsible for m in ing and cus- toms may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burund i. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates commun i- cated by the central bank. Gold exports are authorized jo in t ly by the m in ing and cus- toms departments. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. n.a. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in addition to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Exporters of non trad i t ional products and enterprises in free trade zones may hold for- eign exchange accounts. Authorized banks may freely open foreign exchange accounts but must forward copies of the relevant documents to the BRB. Held abroad Prior BRB authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and ju r id ical persons of foreign na- t iona l i ty who reside abroad, (2) enterprises authorized to operate in the free trade zone, (3) exporters of nontraditional products who are authorized to retain 30% of the ir export proceeds, (4) Bu rundi nationals res id ing abroad, and (5) any other natural or ju r id ical persons authorized by the BRB. These accounts may be credited freely with any con- vertible currency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Bu rundi francs for payments in Bu rund i; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods, except for banknotes. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and commissions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) up to FBu 20,000 may be w i thd rawn in banknotes upon presentation of travel documents. W i thdrawa ls in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. If no deposits are made to the foreign account w i th in 3 months of its opening, the account must be closed. Prior approval is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 BURUNDI Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Accounts in convertible Bu rundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of foreign nationality (such as staff of diplomatic missions) who are temporarily estab- lished in Burundi, (2) ju r id ical persons of foreign nationality with special status (such as diplomatic missions and international organizations), and (3) any other natural or ju r id i- cal persons authorized by the BRB. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs or for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 in foreign currency may be withdrawn in banknotes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket) for an un l im i ted number of trips. Withdrawals of banknotes in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the BRB. These accounts may bear in- terest freely and must not be overdrawn. Prior approval is required. Imports and Import Payments No. No. All goods imported into Bu rundi must be insured by approved Bu rundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Bu rundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 3 m i l l ion in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection w i th regard to quality, quantity, and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Bu rundi authorities. The importation of a limited number of goods is restricted mainly for health or security reasons. Burundi is a member of the COMESA. There are 5 customs duty bands (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMESA. Imports of petroleum products are subject to import duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, which replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ irements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requ irements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected within 30 days of the date of export declaration at customs for shipment by air or w i th in 90 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from exports of nontraditional products are set by the bank carry- ing out the operation. All proceeds from trad i t ional exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Effec- t ive November 12, 1996, exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to 50% of proceeds, compared to 30% previously. Exporters operating in the free trade area are not required to surrender their export proceeds to an authorized bank. No. No. No. Export taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally applicable rate is 5%. For green coffee, the rate is set at each crop season. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 151 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments for inv is ib les require approval. Freight/insurance Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Bu rundi francs w i th a Burundi insurer. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Unloading/storage costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Limited to amounts indicated by invoice. Administrative expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends n.a. n.a. Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100% of their earnings after deduction of local expenses. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for mainte- nance expenses). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is $200 a person a day or its equivalent ($250 for exporters), subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a trip. There is no l im it on the number of trips for each person. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im it is FBu 700,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test A supporting medical certificate is required. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits L im i ts depend on the type of student. Indicative limits/bona fide test An en ro l lment certificate is requ ired. Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Quantitative limits L im i ted to amounts indicated by invoices, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits L im i ted to amoun ts ind ica ted by invoices, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Upon presentation of ev idence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and wo rk ing in Bu rundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70% of their net annual income (80% in the case of foreign nationals wo rk ing for companies that export at least 50% of the ir p roduc t ion ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 BURUNDI Indicative limits/bonafide test A work contract is required. Pensions Indicative limits/bonafide test Applications must be submitted to the Social Security Institute. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Family ma in tenance /a l imony n.a. n.a. Quantitative limits The l im it is FBu 150,000 a year. Indicative limits/bonafide test n.a. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards is not permitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered to authorized banks. Restr ict ions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require ind iv idual authorization. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 153 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Bu rundi guarantees foreign investors the right to invest in the country. Foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw material abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted requ ire ind iv idual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase must be effected in foreign exchange. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Borrowing abroad must be effected through correspondent banks. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Expor ts and export proceeds November 12. The portion of export proceeds from nontraditional products that may be retained was increased to 50% from 30%. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian riel. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official rate and the market rate. Adjustments to the official exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cam- bodia (NBC) to l im it the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 1%. In practice, the spread exceeds this range from time to time. The official ex- change rate applies ma in ly to external transactions conducted by the government and state-owned enterprises. The NBC quotes daily official rates, at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia (FTBC) and the Phnom Penh Municipal Bank (2 state-owned commercial banks) buy and sell foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy and sell foreign ex- . change at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements No. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the NBC. The NBC is authorized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate cur- rent and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. New foreign exchange laws that w i ll align the de ju re regime with current practice have been submitted to the National Assembly. In terna t ional security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on external trade Restrictions on exports of gold and silver apply. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 155 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency n.a. Exports are subject to pr ior no t if ica t ion to the NBC. n.a. There are no l im i ts, but imports must be declared on entry. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. There are no l im i ts on the balances of these accounts, and the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations, and all transactions can be settled in foreign currency. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Domiciliation requirements n.a. Preshipment inspection Presh ipment import inspection is required for most goods. Letters of credit n.a. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of na- tional security, health, environmental well-being, or pub l ic morality. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Import duties are levied, and an excise tax of 10% applies to selected imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 CAMBODIA Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds from exports by state-owned enterprises must be sold to or deposited with the FTBC; private sector entities must hold export proceeds in accounts with resident commercial banks. Yes. No. Exports of a l im i ted list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed timber, logs, and rice. Exports of rice, gems, and sawed timber are subject to a quota. Exports of antiques are restricted. An excise tax of 10% of the estimated market value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are not restricted, but are regulated by the In- vestment Law. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. An exchange allowance of $10,000 a person is granted at the official rate for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay; amounts in excess of this l im it must be ap- proved by the NBC. In practice, however, there are no limits. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements The requirement applies only to state-owned enterprises. On ly proceeds from inv is ib les earned by state-owned enterprises must be surrendered. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments There are no specific laws on capital market securities, and there is no issue of securities in national currency. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the Cambodia Investment Board, Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Approval of the government of Cambodia is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no derivatives in national currency. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 157 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Interbank lending is free. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents In practice, there are no controls on these credits. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by pub l ic sector agencies is permitted only w i th the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment In practice, there are no controls on these credits. The requirement of government approval is not enforced. Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for Development of Cambodia (CDC), but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Liquidation of foreign direct investment requires approval of the CDC or NBC, but in practice, this requirement is not enforced. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange In practice, there are some controls. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credit controls There are global and ind iv idual l im i ts. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long position in any single foreign cur- rency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of the bank's net worth. There are no ins t i tu t ional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25% is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a du ly issued license and domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsur- ance premiums. No. No. Forward exchange cover requires the pr ior authorization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the con- tract, and the maturity period must be between 3 months and 9 months. Settlements must be effected w i th in 8 days of the maturity date of the forward contract. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in French francs. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury. n.a. n.a. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Exchange transactions relating to all coun- tries must be effected through authorized intermediaries (i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks). Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy (MMWE). Export licenses are issued by the MOF. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency CAMEROON 159 Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe l ry in Cameroon. Approval of the MMWE is requ ired to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is no rma l ly given only to indus t r ial users, inc lud ing jewelers. New ly mined gold must be declared to the MMWE, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus t r ial users. Exports are made only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization of the MMWE and the MOF, although such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requ ire- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; reexportation above this ce i l ing requires documentation showing either the importation of foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts These accounts are not permitted. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. n.a. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Since the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c ircu la t ing outside its zone of issue, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde (capital of Cameroon) may not be credited to fore ign accounts in CFA francs. Nonresidents are allowed to ma in ta in bank accounts in convertible francs. These ac- counts, held ma in ly by d ip loma t ic missions, international institutions, and their nonresi- dent employees, may be credited only w i th (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign currencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance w i th exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to residents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonres iden ts may not ma in ta in accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in fo re ign currency in Cameroon. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 CAMEROON F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits are permitted if under ly ing contracts stipulate them. Imports and Import Payments Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Preshipment inspection All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions invo lv ing goods in transit must be dom ic i led with a foreign bank. Imports from all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS (Societe Generate de Surveillance). Letters of credit Letters of credit are allowed but are optional, Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures In general, licenses have been replaced by simple declarations to the banks, but imports of certain products are still subject to licensing. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. Certain imports are proh ib i ted for ecological, health, or safety reasons. n.a. n.a. Import tariffs range from 5% to 30%. Duties on products from members of the UDEAC are 20% of the rates applicable to nonmembers. Import surcharges apply to imports from countries outside the UDEAC. An import surcharge of 20% is applied to maize meal wh i le a 10% surcharge is applied to imports of cement. Surcharges apply to imports from countries outside the UDEAC and to imports of maize meal and cement. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopo ly There is a state import monopo ly only for imports relating to sovereign expend i ture (defense, security, etc.). Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ irements Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of collection. F in an c ing requ irements No. Documen ta t ion requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Letters of credit are optional. Exports to all countries are subject to dom ic i l ia t ion requirements for the appropriate documents. Export transactions va lued at CFAF 500,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are required for all exports valued at the equivalent of at least CFAF 500,000. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 161 Export taxes An export tax of 13.5% is levied on coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, sugar, and medicinal plants; a specific tax of CFAF 6,500 per ton is levied on bananas. An export tax of 25% is applied to timber, and rates ranging from 15% to 25% are applied to semiprocessed timber. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration and are subject to presentation of rele- vant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade fo l low the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. All payments and transfers are subject to pr ior ap- proval, ind ica t ive limits, and/or bona fide tests. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily who have been in- sured previously, residents and nonresidents are not allowed to contract insurance abroad when the same services are available in Cameroon. However, payments of pre- miums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be granted foreign exchange allow- ances subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion a tr ip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, up to CFAF 5 m i l l ion a tr ip; and (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir pos- session upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i th in 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. The transfer of up to 50% of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon, depending on the number of dependents abroad, is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in 1 month of the pay period concerned. The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is l im i ted to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and busi- ness travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected w i th in 1 month of the due date. Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of collection. Re turn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i th in 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 CAMEROON Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transactions between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in con- nection with shares similar to securities, when their issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. All foreign securities and titles embody- ing claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Lending abroad by natural and jur id ical persons, whether pub l ic or private, whose nor- mal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans of up to CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed 2 years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6% a year. Borrowing abroad by natural and jur id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (2) loans con- tracted by registered banks and credit institutions; and (3) loans backed by a guarantee from the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exports and export proceeds CAMEROON 163 Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad ( inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon) require prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of und is- tributed profits or do not exceed 20% of the fair market value of the company being purchased. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon ( inc lud ing those made by companies in Camer- oon that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon) require p r ior declaration to the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is t r ib- uted profits; the m in is try has a period of 2 months from receipt of the declaration du r ing wh ich it may request postponement. The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Cameroon requires only a report to the MOF, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Yes. n.a. n.a. At least one-third of the share capital of banks must be owned by nationals. Banks w i th foreign ma jo r i ty participation must subm it to the monetary authorities in fo rma t ion on all current transactions abroad and obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the monetary au thor i t ies and reside in Cameroon. Changes During 1996 June 1. Cameroon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Articles of Agreement. July 1. The export tax rate on coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, palm oil, sugar, and medici- nal plants was reduced to 13.5%, and the specific tax on bananas was reduced to CFAF 6,500 per ton. The export tax regime for t imber was changed: an export tax rate of 25% is applied to t imbe r, and rates between 15% and 25% are applied to semiproc- essed t imber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly condi- tions in the market. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are freely determined in the exchange market. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada notified the IMF on Ju ly 23, 1992 that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Canada imposed restrictions on financial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance w i th UN Security Counc il Resolution No. 942. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States requ ire a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing m inor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes No. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 165 CANADA Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are frozen, pursuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for impor ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Measures consistent with international trade obligations (e.g., an t idump ing, countervail- ing duties, and safeguard provisions) are maintained. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import permits are requ ired for only a few agricultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, and material and equ ipment for the produc t ion or use of atomic energy. In 1995, permits were requ ired for the importation of controlled substances classified as dangerous drugs and certain m i l i ta ry armaments. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered w i th it. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally proh ib i ted. However, the prohibition of imports of used veh i- cles from the Un i ted States was eliminated in 1994. The proh ib i t ion on imports of used vehicles from Mexico w i ll be phased out by January 1, 2019. Yes. Imports of some c lo th ing and certain textile products, usua l ly in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the MFA negoti- ated w i t h in the framework of the GATT, are also subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. In accordance w i th the prov is ions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on textiles and cloth- ing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and c lo th ing is be ing liberalized in stages over a ten-year period beg inn ing January 1, 1995. As a result of the comm i tmen ts made under the U ruguay Round Agreement, Canada has agreed to replace all agr icu l- tu ral import res tr ic t ions with tariff rate quotas and to ensure import access levels as ne- gotiated in the U ruguay Round (or under the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 CANADA Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. State import monopo ly Certain monopolies exist at the subfederal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas No. No. No. No. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Mun i t ions List, the International Industrial List, and the International Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons and for purposes of promoting fur ther processing in Canada (e.g., logs, herring roe) and for nonproliferation purposes (chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, the fo l low ing countries are on the Area Control List: Angola and Libya. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List. Expo rt taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommu- nications, transportation, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provision of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notifica- tion requirements but not to review requirements. As a result of the NAFTA, only direct acquisitions of businesses w i th assets exceeding Can$168 m i l l ion were subject to review du r ing 1996; the amount was raised to Can$172 m i l l ion for 1997. Indirect acquisitions are no longer subject to review. These provisions were multilateralized as part of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 167 Canada's imp lemen ta t ion of the U ruguay Round results. Investments subject to review are requ ired only to pass a test p rov ing that they w i ll y ie ld a net benefit to Canada. D i f fe rent thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in culturally sensitive sectors. The direct acquisition of a business with assets greater than Can$5 m i l l ion and the indirect acqu is i t ion of a business with assets greater than Can$5 m i l l i on and Can$50 m i l l ion, which represent more than 50% of the va lue of the total international transaction in question, is subject to review. The establishment of a new business, the direct acquisition of a business w i th assets of less than Can$168 m i l l ion in 1996 and Can $172 m i l l ion in 1997, and the indirect ac- qu is i t ion of a business by investors from WTO members are not subject to review and need only be no t i f ied, except in cases when the Canadian business represents 50% or more of the va lue of the total assets acquired in the international acquisition. (The ac- qu is i t ion of a Canadian enterprise may be considered "direct" where it invo lves the ac- qu is i t ion of control of a corporation carrying on a Canadian business and "indirect" where it invo lves the transfer of control of a non-Canadian corporation, wh ich then controls a Canadian corporation carrying on a Canadian business.) The direct acqu is i t ion of a business whose assets exceed the above-mentioned l im it is reviewed and assessed according to its net benefit to Canada, authorization being gen- erally granted. All acquisitions or investments to establish a new business in cu l tu ral sectors such as book pub l ish ing, sound recording, and f i lm are norma l ly subject to re- view. Reviewable cases must be resolved within 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer t ime period. In practice, most cases are resolved w i th in 45 days. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 1996 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to a weighted basket of the currencies of the most important suppliers of imports and sources of emigrant remittances, including the United States. The composition of the basket is revised annually; weights are deter- mined using a formu la g iv ing a two-thirds weight to imports and a one-third weight to remittances. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo is expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and fixed da i ly on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies inc luded in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange w i th the general pub l ic are conducted by the 2 com- mercial banks, Banca Commercial do Atlantico (BCA) and Caija Economia de Cabo Verde (CECV). Export proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated in convertible currencies. There are agreements with Angola and Sao Tome and Principe, under wh ich Cape Verde is a net creditor. n.a. n.a. n.a. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV), the central bank. In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Other Payment arrears Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 169 Official Private n.a. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require prior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Residents trave l ing abroad may take out the equivalent of C.V. Esc 100,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount but may reexport only up to the amount they declared upon entry. Resident Accounts n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign enterprises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange de- posit accounts, (2) savings-credit deposit accounts, and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts may be credited only with convertible foreign currencies and allow holders of savings-credit deposit accounts to benefit from loans on special terms for f inanc ing small-scale projects. Interest on such accounts may be freely remit- ted abroad. Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only w i th the proceeds from the sale, or surrender of receipts, of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in local currency; such ac- counts must be replenished exclusively with foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000 and not invo lv ing payments from the coun t ry 's foreign exchange resources are subject to the preregistration requ iremen t. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 CAPE VERDE Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. n.a. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the BCV and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign ex- change is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Li- censes are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equ ipmen t. Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Yes. n.a. n.a. Most locally produced food items and beverages (e.g., fish, bread, tomatoes, bananas, cereals, salt, beer, and soft drinks) are subject to a global annual import quota; some items (e.g., potatoes, onions, and poultry) are subject to seasonal quotas. State import monopo ly The importation of maize, rice, sugar, and cooking oil is conducted by state monopolies. Repatr iat ion requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 3 months, but this period may be extended. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Yes. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limit s/bona fide test Adm in is tra t ive expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Comm iss ions Prior approval Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 171 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonaflde test Yes. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits For business travel, the foreign currency allowance varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each tr ip. For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000, approval is required. Yes. n.a. Yes. The amount varies according to medical needs. Indicative limits/bonaflde test n.a. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000, approval is required. The l im it is C.V. Esc 100,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholar- ships are, in addition, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the coun- try of destination. Indicative limits/bonaflde test n.a. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonaflde test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonaflde test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonaflde test For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 200,000, approval is requ ired, n.a. n.a. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are author- ized w i th in the l im i ts specified in the ind iv idual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts invo lv ing foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. Yes. n.a. n.a. For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000, approval is requ ired. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transactions must be approved in advance by the BCV, but legally imported capital, in c lud ing foreign direct investment, may be reexported w i thout l im i ta t ion. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not no rma l ly permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 CAPE VERDE On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Con tro ls on direct investment Ou tward direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Con tro ls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct inve s tment n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 173 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The BCA and the CECV are allowed net foreign exchange positions of up to the equ iva lent of $1.5 m i l l ion and $1 m i l l ion, respectively. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25% is levied on all capital transfers to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treas- ury and for the expenses of students. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, allowed by the fixed peg w i th the French franc, exporters and importers can always cover their position on the Paris for- eign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury, l ink ing Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts hav ing a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state requ ire the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Au tonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) of the MOF supervises borrow- ing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lend ing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the MOF, which has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, granting of exceptional travel alloca- tions in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the repatriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, except those for gold, wh ich are to be made through the BEAC. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accoun ts Ju r id ical persons Na tural persons Domestic currency accounts CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 175 Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, im- ports and exports are made by an authorized purchas ing office. Exempt from pr ior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) im- ports and exports of manufactured articles con ta in ing a small quantity of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been off ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw D iamonds. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents can export from one BEAC country to another. Exports of banknotes outside the BEAC zone are proh ib i ted. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation of fore ign banknotes is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of fore ign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either their impor- tation or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trave ler or th rough the use of nonres ident deposits he ld in local banks. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonres iden ts can import from another BEAC country. Imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC zone are p roh ib i ted. Resident Accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on regu la t ions app l ied in France. The p r inc ipal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Conver t ib le into foreign currency n.a. F inan c ing requirements for imports No. Imports and Import Payments Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an author- ized bank. n.a. n.a. Import declarations are requ ired for all imports, and the import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Negative list Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs The UDEAC CET applies; there are 4 rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inputs, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra-UDEAC tariff is 20% of the CET. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Surrender requirements Documen ta t ion requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be collected and repatriated w i th in 1 month of the due date, wh ich must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than French francs or those of an Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered. n.a. n.a. All export transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection n.a. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system All exports requ ire a declaration. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 177 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Prior approval is re- quired for payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administra- tive expenses, interest, commissions, travel, medical costs, and use of credit cards abroad, as well as for remittances of profits and dividends. However, payments for in- visibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Residents trave l ing to other countries of the franc zone may obtain an un l im i ted alloca- tion in French francs. W i th in the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes can be exported w i thout limit. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 5 m i l l ion a tr ip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authori- zation of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC. Returning resident travelers are re- quired to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender w i th in 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in the ir name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required that such means of pay- ment has been purchased w i th funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or w i th other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of the limits are normally granted. Medical costs Quantitative limits The allowance for sick persons traveling to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons is CFAF 100,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 2,500,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The l im it is CFAF 1,000,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval n.a. n.a. Foreign nationals work ing in the BEAC zone are allowed to transfer 50% of the ir net salary upon presentation of the ir pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in 3 mon ths of the pay period concerned. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings set for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bonafide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of limits are normally granted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in 1 month of the due date. If payment is received in foreign currency, it must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of the date of receipt. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Repub l ic requires prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the gov- ernment; and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 179 Yes. n.a. Lend ing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Re- pub l ic of ju r id i c al persons whose registered office is abroad, requires pr ior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Foreign borrowing by the government or its pub l ic and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing w i th a government guarantee, requires the pr ior approval of the Director of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Repub l ic and by ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requ ires prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from th is authorization are (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for wh ich prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f irms men t ioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between the Central Afr ican R epub l ic and countries abroad, or between fore ign coun tr ies in wh ich those persons or f irms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Rela- tions w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad, i n c l u d i ng those made th rough foreign companies that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con tro l led by persons in the Central A f r ican R epub l ic and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of companies in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, requ ire the pr ior approval of the MOF, un less they take the form of a capital increase re su l t ing from the re inves tment of und i s t r ibu t ed profits. Inves tmen ts must be declared to the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from the re inves tment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the MOF may request a post- ponement of up to 2 months from receipt of the declaration. Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion of investments requ ires pr ior approval from the MOF, unless the opera- t ion invo lves the re l inqu i sh ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had prev ious ly been approved. Exchange arrangements June J. The Central A f r ican R epub l ic accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass i f ica t ion Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the curren- cies concerned. All transfers and exchange operations are subject to a commission levied by the Treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25% in the CFA franc zone and 0.5% outside the CFA franc zone. No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requ ires the pr ior approval of the Office of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations n.a. Prescr ipt ion of currency requ irements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements C lear ing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treas- ury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs th rough foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury. Yes. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), wh ich has dele- gated approval au thor i ty in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirec- torate, wh ich issues ins truc t ions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions re la t ing to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through author- ized banks. The MOF supervises pub l ic and private sector borrowing and lend ing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Yes. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 181 Private n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold w i thout specific authorization. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the Ministry and the Directorate of Geological and M in ing Research, as well as a visa from the External Fi- nance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Un- worked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an un l im i ted amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents v is i t ing other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an un l im i ted allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation shall depend on the type of travel and can be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from areas outside the BEAC area is proh ib i ted. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Pr inc ipal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 CHAD outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required n.a. n.a. F inanc ing requirements for imports No. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of su lphur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with 4 tariff bands. Tariffs on imports from UDEAC members are 20% of MFN rates. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly The import monopoly on sugar was l if ted on January 1, 1997. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Documentat ion requ irements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received w i th in 180 days of the arrival of the com- modities at the ir destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered w i th in 1 month of the due date. n.a. n.a. Export transactions to foreign countries exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection n.a. Export licenses Exports of cotton are effected by the government-controlled monopoly of Cotontchad. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted free ly. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 183 Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, non- residents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self- employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than a year) are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not CFA franc zone members without prior authorization from the proper authorities. They may, however, receive transfers from abroad. A simple declaration is required for trans- fers to countries outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior authorization must be obtained from the proper authorities. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, wh ich are required to execute promptly all du ly documented transfer orders, and to dispatch cable transfers w i th in 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. On a temporary basis, nonresidents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, interna- tional organizations and their staff, agencies with equ iva lent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than a year) are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not CFA franc zone members w i thout prior authorization from the competent authorities. Payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, commissions, interest, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, as well as remittances of profits and d iv idends are subject to prior approval, quan t i ta t ive limits, and indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide test. Insurance on all imports w i th f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged w i th local insurance companies by the importer. Travelers —civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc. —must use the fo l low ing payments instruments: foreign exchange, trave ler's checks, bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an un l im i ted allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is sub ject to pr ior authorization from the relevant administrative authorities. Residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for tourism, sporting events, participa- tion in expositions, organization of fairs, participation in seminars or international meetings of a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a max imum of CFAF 4 m i l l i on a person a trip over 10 years of age; for ch i ldren under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Resi- dents trave l ing to countries outside the CFA franc zone for business may obtain an ex- change allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a max imum of CFAF 10 m i l l ion a tr ip. C iv il servants and government employees traveling on off ic ial business to countries outside the CFA franc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tourists, but only if the ir mission costs are less than a da i ly allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a l im it of CFAF 4 m i l l ion. For countries ou ts ide the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is equ iv a l ent to CFAF 250,000 a day up to a l im it of CFAF 5 m i l l ion. The exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is the equ iva lent to a 3-month scholarship p lus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the ho lder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion. Freight/insurance Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 CHAD Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be col- lected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in 2 months of the due date. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket ins trumen ts On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on fore ign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Add i t ional special controls are maintained over borrow ing and lend ing abroad; inward and outward direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian government, and shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offer ing them for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other in s trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents CHAD 185 Lending requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total amount of these loans out- standing does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans re- ferred to under (2) is free of authorization, and each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MOF. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount of the loan outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the maturity is 2 years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) is free of authorization, and each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF, regardless of the method of f inanc ing. Investments requ ire the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enterprise. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements n.a. Liquid asset requirements Commercial banks must ma in ta in a specified m in imum amount of the ir assets in Chad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 CHAD Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n. a. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangements June L Chad accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 Imports and import payments January I. The import monopoly on sugar was l if ted. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of April 30, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 27, 1977. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ch i le is the Chilean peso. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Dual C lass i f ica t ion Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy There are 2 foreign exchange markets: the off ic ial market, through wh ich debt-service payments, remittances of d iv idends and profits, and authorized capital transactions, in c lud ing loan receipts, must be transacted; and the informal market, through wh ich all transactions not requ i red to be channeled through the formal market take place. The formal foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks and exchange houses and other entities licensed by the Central Bank of Ch i le (CBC). In both exchange markets, economic agents are free to negotiate rates; the CBC con- duc ts transactions in the o f f ic ial exchange market w i th in marg ins of 10% around the reference rate. The exchange rate of the Ch i lean peso is adjusted daily on the basis of changes in the va lue of a basket of currencies calculated from a set fo rmu la (0.45 U.S. dollar, 0.46 deutsche mark, and 24.6825 Japanese yen) and the d ifferen t ial between domestic and foreign rates of in f la t ion, adjusted for the estimated d i f fe ren t ial in produc- t iv i ty growth between Ch i le and its trading partners (2% a year). In January 1997, the marg in around the reference rate was increased to 12.5%, wh i le the composition of the basket was mod if ied to 0.8 U.S. do l lar, 0.24435 deutsche mark, and 5.911 Japanese yen. No. The CBC provides a subsidy (in the form of notes indexed to in f la t ion w i th a m i n im um ma tur i ty of 6 years and an interest rate of 3%) on the fo l low ing service payments on some debts contracted before August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 b i l l ion ): (1) payments to Ch i lean banks or f inanc ial companies whose debt is indexed to the o f f ic ial exchange rate, and (2) payments abroad on debt obligations regis- tered w i th the CBC. As of end-1996, on ly debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985, have had access to the subs idy, but many of the affected debtors are bank rupt and unab le to claim the subs idy. On December 31, 1996, the subsidized rate was the o f f ic ial reference rate. Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Settlements w i th Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Repub l ic, Ecua- dor, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezue la are made through ac- counts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the CBC and the central banks of each of the coun t r ies concerned w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 CHILE Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities The CBC is responsible for enforcing regulations aimed at collecting balance of pay- ments informa t ion. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for advising the CBC with respect to exports of copper and subproducts. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized dealers, but ordinary transactions in gold between private ind iv idua ls are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unrestricted, subject to normal export and import formalities, inc lud ing regis- tration with the CBC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Both natural and ju r id ical persons can hold foreign currency checking accounts. How- ever, ju r id ical persons must take into account legal restrictions on investments, given the ir commercial activities (i.e., pension fund administrators). In the case of checking accounts, the commercial banks must certify the domicile reported. The average balance is subject to legal reserve requirements. Prior approval is not required; however, ju r id ical persons subject to regulations on in- vestment abroad (i.e., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency No. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Checking accounts may not be held by nonresidents because holders must be dom ic i led in the country. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Payments th rough the o f f ic ial fore ign exchange market requ ire an import report (informe de importation) issued by the CBC, wh ich must be obtained from, and proc- essed through, the intermediary of a local commercial bank. Access to foreign exchange is available no later than 30 days after the ob l iga t ion 's exp ira t ion date as documented on the import report. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 189 Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural or jur id ical persons may engage in import activities. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Most imports require an informe de importation issued by the CBC. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to after-duty price margin limits. Antidumping and countervailing duty laws are applied. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of used motor vehicles are prohibited. Imports are subject to a un i fo rm 11% tariff rate with a few exceptions ( inc lud ing on imports from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (state copper company) must be deposited in the account of the Copper Stabilization Fund at the CBC; withdrawals are permitted only under prescribed circumstances. Debtors of internal credits recorded under Chapter VI of Title II of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange (CEIR) are authorized to settle interest, commissions, and/or expenses corresponding to those op- erations effected directly abroad with export proceeds. The CBC must be informed of these settlements. No. Exports can be financed with advances from foreign buyers or with external or internal credits, as agreed between the trading parties. Such advances must be channeled through the formal exchange market. Credits must be iden t if ied with shipments and paid imme- diately after proceeds are received. Documentation requirements The exporter must submit an export report to the CBC through a bank ing company, establishing the exporter's identity and the terms of the operation. Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes The commercial bank that receives the letter prior to payment of the foreign exchange w i ll demand from the exporter the sh ipp ing documents of the merchandise and the ad- ditional requirements established in the letter of credit. Yes. Inspections are done by customs agents, who perform the role of "customs ministers of faith"; subsequently, a shipment order is issued, wh ich is subject to customs control. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most current payments are free of controls; remittances of profits and d iv idends requ i re prior approval by the CBC, and there is a max imum repatriation period of 120 days. The CBC authorizes the commercial banks to issue credit cards, but card users must pay balances due for purchases abroad w i th the ir own resources. However, under the con- cept of extraordinary expenditures, each person may acquire foreign exchange in the formal market w i thout declaring the purpose. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 CHILE Surrender requirements Proceeds from selected transactions (e.g., royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade) are subject to a 100% surrender requirement. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can invest in domestic securities in 3 ways: (1) Through acquisition by foreign investment funds (FICE). These are formed by for- eign capital and administered by an open society established in Chile. Investments can- not exceed 5% of social capital in any 1 company and 10% of the fund s' total assets. These funds cannot invest more than 40% of the ir portfolios in equities of the same ho ld ing period, and all FICEs as a group may not hold more than 25% of the equities of the same open society. Other requirements for FICEs are a 5-year m in imum ho ld ing period, a profit tax of 10%, and some portfolio restrictions that vary with the duration of the holding period; (2) Through a financial investment (purchase of fixed income securities and equities). These are, however, subject to a reserve requirement of 30% for 1 year, and a m in imum ho ld ing period requirement of 1 year and to the general income tax law. Equities that have American Depository Receipts (ADRs) can be acquired in the country and con- verted into ADRs. These transactions are also subject to the 30% reserve requirement. The issuance of primary ADRs is exempt from the above restrictions, but the issuers are subject to m i n im um international rating requirements and there is a m in imum amount to be issued; (3) Through loans. These can also be used to finance the purchase of securities in the country. They are subject to a 1-year reserve requirement of 30%, a 4% tax on interest payments, and a 1.2% stamp tax. Proceeds from the sale of domestic securities by nonresidents are subject to the 1-year ho ld ing period requirement if the capital inf low entered as a financial investment. The sale of equities that are the property of foreigners due to the ADR mechanism is possi- ble, since Chilean ADRs can be converted into domestic stock. However, the resources obtained through the sale must be repatriated. ADRs issued from equities directly ac- quired in the Chilean stock market (also called secondary ADRs) are t igh t ly restricted, both for the authorized period for acquiring stocks domestically and for the authorized period for acqu ir ing foreign exchange after a local stock sale. All the associated foreign exchange operations must be effected through the formal exchange market. Issuance of foreign securities by nonresidents is subject to the same procedures applied to domestic securities. In practice, no foreign securities are traded domestically. Once the respective taxes have been paid, profits may be transferred-freely without delay. Except for banks and pension funds, there are no restrictions on the acquisition of inter- national fixed-income assets and current account deposits. The associated foreign ex- change must be acquired in the informal market. Pension funds are authorized to hold up to 9% of their funds in foreign assets, inc lud ing a variety of fixed-income assets and company shares up to 4.5% of the fund. Investments by life insurance companies are limited to 10% of the ir technical reserves and risk net worth. Residents can issue equities and bonds abroad, and the associated foreign exchange operations must be effected through the formal exchange market. Equities can be sold according to the ru les that regulate capital inf lows through the mechanism of ADRs. Primary ADR issues are only subject to m in imum amounts (US$25 m i l l ion the first time, and thereafter US$10 m i l l ion ), and to 2 m i n im um international risk-rating re- qu i remen ts, for long-term debt of BBB+ for banks and BBB for other firms. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 191 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents In general, these acquisitions are authorized for nonresidents, but there are regulations governing the mode of inflow. The associated capital inf low l iqu ida t ion and the subse- quent repatriation of proceeds must be effected through the formal exchange market. Acquisition through external loans are subject to a reserve requirement of 30%, a tax on interest of 4%, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Acqu is i t ion through FICEs is subject to a m in imum ho ld ing period of 5 years in addition to a 10% prof it tax. In the case of f inan- cial investments, there is a 30% 1-year reserve requ irement and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of 1 year, and they are subject to the general income tax law. These transactions are not authorized and neither is the promotion of these or other fi- nancial services from abroad. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, the company must be registered and established, and must have brought in capital for operational purposes. The legal mechanism used is the creation of a Chilean agency of the foreign corporation. The acquisition of money market instruments by ind iv idua ls and nonfmanc ial compa- nies is not restricted. However, the formal exchange market is not available for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to a reserve requ irement of 30%. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are considered f inanc ial investments subject to a reserve requ i rement of 30% for a year and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of 1 year. Funds that enter Ch i le through an FICE are subject to a m i n im um ho ld ing period of 5 years. These transactions are not permitted. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, the company must be registered and established, and must have brought in capital for op- erational purposes. Once this has occurred, the sales of collective ins trument securities are subject to the same domestic rules as any other investment, with no restrictions on the repatriation of profits. There are no restrictions for nonfmanc ial agents, but there is no access to the formal exchange market for these purposes. Pension funds are also restricted by the type of fund (ma in ly to avoid leveraged and hedged funds), country r isk, regulation, l i q u i d i t y, experience of the fund, and par t ic ipan t's concentration. Investments are also subject to certain l im i ts: they shou ld not exceed 4.5% of the pension fund, and var iab le income securities from any issuer shou ld not exceed 2% of the f u n d. In practice, Chilean mu tual funds (open funds) and investment funds (closed funds) are not offered directly abroad. To operate abroad, such funds must meet the ex is t ing regu- lations of the foreign country. Domestically issued instruments can be sold to nonresi- dents, but funds must be repatriated. These inf lows are considered a financial investment subject to a reserve requirement of 30% annua l ly and a 1-year ho ld ing requ iremen t. FICEs that come into Ch i le under foreign ownership may be sold and traded in the New York or the London stock exchanges. The capital committed by the FICE must remain invested in Ch i le for 5 years. The market is not we ll deve loped. Nonres iden ts cannot participate in the local market for currency der iva t ives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents To operate, fore ign agents must have resident status. Purchase abroad by residents The CBC regulates currency and interest rate der iva t ives tak ing place in fore ign mar- kets. Interest rate der iva t ives do not exist in the local market and are not regulated. Speculative positions w i th derivatives abroad can be taken by non fmanc ial in s t i tu t ions that acquire the fore ign exchange in the in fo rmal market. Banks can cover themselves in currency derivatives up to the level of the und e r ly ing asset or l iab i l i ty pos i t ion that needs to be covered. In the case of interest rate derivatives, banks are on ly a l lowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 CHILE Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents cover mismatches between assets and liabilities. Pension funds and insurance companies are only allowed to cover themselves against currency volatility up to a maximum of the ir foreign f inanc ial investments on a currency-by-currency basis. Derivatives for currency and interest rates exist for operations with foreign agents in over-the-counter operations, w i th security dealers or brokers that are authorized by the foreign authorities, or w i th foreign banks. There is access to formal spot exchange mar- kets for hedging purposes. Currency and interest rate options are allowed, except for banks. For residents, inc lud ing banks, other derivative contracts (interest rates, curren- cies, and commodity prices) are permitted up to the amount of the under ly ing external asset or l iab i l i ty position that needs to be covered. However, these contracts cannot be effected on the formal market, except by banks and institutional investors. All types of non fmanc ial agents (except pension funds and insurance companies) are allowed to engage in international trade lending, but these operations must be effected through the informal exchange market. Commercial credits can be contracted with foreign banks and f inanc ial entities under a 30% reserve requ irement charged on an average balance and subject to a 4% tax on interest. Export advances and direct supplier credits to importers are exempted from the reserve requirement. Associated foreign exchange transactions must be effected through the formal exchange market. Operations by insurance companies, pension funds, and institutional investors are re- stricted. Others must operate through the informal market. In Apr il 1997, access to the formal market was extended to all credits. F inanc ial credits can be contracted w i th fore ign banks and f inanc ial entities, subject to a 1-year 30% reserve requ iremen t, a 4% tax on interest, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Under Chapter XIV of the CEIR, debtors may use the formal market to prepay credits or to ma in ta in the resources in an account abroad as a guarantee to creditors. Such funds are exempt from the 30% reserve requirement, provided the weighted average of the terms of each credit and the residual of the original credit are s im i lar. These transactions are not allowed except for banks, which have to be authorized by the CBC. Only the fo l low ing operations can be guaranteed or backed up by banks: external credits received by domestic enterprises, f inanc ial credits, the issuance of documents abroad, and forward contracts w i th authorized agents abroad. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Restrictions exist in the case of ownership in a foreign company, investments in a proj- ect, or establishment of a company abroad. Investments may be made: (1) through the formal exchange market, in wh ich case the CBC grants approval but the investment is subject to a 120-day prof it repatriation wh i le avoiding double taxation; or (2) through the informal exchange market, where the CBC must only be informed. There are also some l im i ta t ions on the purchase of equities and foreign direct inves tment through the formal exchange market, in which case the CBC may give authorization to proceed, depend ing upon the specific informa t ion it is provided about the inves tmen t. There is a d ive r s i f ica t ion requ i rement that a l lows a max imum investment in subs id iar ies and branches in 1 fo re ign country of 20% of the capital and reserves of a local bank. In- vestment abroad in foreign subsidiaries and branches must be deducted from the local capital base. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 193 Investment by commercial banks is limited to 25% of each bank's capital and reserves, and restricted to b i l ls and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or central banks and private enterprises with a m in imum long-term international debt risk rating (and its equivalent for short-term debt) of BBB. Pension funds and insurance companies are subject to a m in imum long-term interna- tional debt risk rating of BBB. In Apr il 1997, the fo l low ing transactions were permitted in the formal market: investments abroad, inc lud ing acquisition of real or financial as- sets; and participation in companies and in contracts for the exploration and exploitation of domestic resources. There is, however, a reporting obligation to the CBC. Repatria- tion of investments, inc lud ing profits, were exempted from the 30% reserve requirement. Capital con tr ibu t ions to new establishments or shares in existing ones are subject to a 1-year m in imum ho ld ing period and a m in imum amount of US$10,000. Projects of significant size may be undertaken; there is a m in imum ho ld ing period of 1 year, and the investor enjoys favorable taxation treatment with regard to the choice between the gen- eral income tax law or the guaranteed payment profit tax of 42%. There is also guaran- teed access to the formal exchange market for repatriation. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Investments must be held in Ch i le for at least 1 year to qu a l i fy for repatriation. A f ter that period, it must be demonstrated that the assets were sold and applicable taxes paid. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are permitted through the informal market, but insurance companies can in- vest only 3% of the ir reserves and risk net worth. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Purchases are treated as a financial investment and are subject to a m i n im um investment requirement of US$10,000, a reserve requirement of 30%, and a m i n im um ho ld ing pe- riod of 1 year. The investment must have been held for 1 year in Ch i le and it must be demonstrated that the asset was sold and applicable taxes paid. Banks are permitted to obtain foreign trade credits subject to a reserve requ irement of 30% against the average balance. They may also obtain f inanc ial credits w i th a reserve requirement of 30% for a year. Nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions are not allowed to ma in ta in accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign time deposits w i th in the margin for financial investment abroad. External current accounts are not restricted. Banks are only allowed to grant loans related to foreign trade. However, they can pur- chase debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Time deposits are considered part of the margin for financial investments. Banks satisfying a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10% may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Deposits, loans, and other assets of Chilean banks with foreign banks of Ch i lean ownersh ip cannot exceed 25% of the capital and reserves of the foreign bank. Banks are only permitted to grant foreign exchange credits associated w i th fo re ign trade. However, they may grant loans or acquire securities denominated or expressed in for- eign exchange prov ided they remain w i t h in the open position l im i ts. These purchases are subject to open position l im i ts. The requ irement for fore ign currency deposits, for both t ime and current account depos- its, is 30%. The requ irement for domestic currency t ime deposits is 9%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 CHILE Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad By law there are ceilings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate. Foreign financial investments by commercial banks are limited to 25% of each bank's capital and reserves, and are restricted to b i l ls and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or central banks and private enterprises. The general m in imum long-term international debt risk rating (and its equivalent for short-term debt) for the financial instruments is BBB-, and up to 30% of the 25% margin can be invested in BB- instruments. The foreign exchange needed to invest abroad must be obtained in the for- mal exchange market. The l im it is 20% of capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot in- struments, foreign investment, assets and liabilities issued abroad or denominated in foreign exchange. Add i t iona l ly, there is a foreign financial investment ceiling of 25% of the capital and reserves of each bank, a maximum investment in subsidiaries and branches abroad of 20% of the capital and reserves of domestic banks, and a require- ment that the balance of all acquisitions and sales of foreign exchange for a bank be positive. Pension funds and insurance companies may hold only foreign instruments of a m in i- mum international long-term risk rating requirement of BBB. These investors may also acquire foreign instruments guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury, such as Brady Bonds. Acquisition of equities and variable income assets by pension funds is restricted to in- struments in some international markets. Specifically, there are rules on the transpar- ency, regulation, and informa t ion of the stock exchange where these instruments can be acquired. However, for insurance companies, the possible stock exchange options are wider; insurance companies can invest in markets where there is a daily average of at least US$10 m i l l ion of equity transactions. Mu tual funds may use the formal exchange market to make investments abroad. Pension funds may invest up to 9% of their resources abroad. L ife insurance companies may invest their technical reserves and their risk net worth w i th global l im i ts of 10% in financial investments and 3% in real estate. The limits for general insurance companies d i f fer from those of the l i fe insurance companies only in the case of f inanc ial investment abroad. The limit for the former is 15%. In April 1997, pension funds were permitted to invest up to 12% of their resources abroad. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. No. Exports and export proceeds March 7. Export payments in advance must be channeled through the formal exchange market. Changes During 1996 May 29. Any export credit must be related to a particular shipment and must be paid as soon as export proceeds are received. July 4. Debtors of external credits recorded under Chapter VI of Title II of the CEIR are authorized to settle amortization interest, commissions, and expenses corresponding to these operations directly abroad with export proceeds; the CBC must be informed of these settlements. Payments for in v i s ib le transact ions and current transfers April 17. The CBC increased unrestricted access to the formal exchange market to indi- viduals for documented travel, and medical and study expenses to US$15,000 a month from US$3,000 a mon th. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Cap ital transact ions CHILE 195 October 3. The CBC eliminated the restrictions on the share of mu tual fund assets that can be invested abroad. January 29. Debtors of credits recorded in Chapter XIV of the CEIR may access in ad- vance the formal market to prepay the credits or ma in ta in the resources in an account abroad, wh ich may be given in guarantee to the creditor. March 22. External credits destined exc lus ive ly to prepay foreign credits that were pre- v ious ly authorized and recorded w i th the CBC were exempted from the 30% reserve requirement, prov ided the weighted average terms of each credit and the residual of the or ig inal credit are similar. March 22. Mu tual funds were permitted to use the formal exchange market to make investments abroad. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements January 20. The f loa t ing exchange rate band was widened to 12.5% above and below the reference exchange rate. The composition of the basket of currencies was mod i f ied to 0.8 U.S. dollar, 0.24435 deutsche mark, and 5.911 Japanese yen. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified as managed f loa t ing. Payments for in v i s ib le transactions and current transfers April 16. The l im it of US$15,000 for purchases of foreign exchange for these transac- tions in the formal exchange market was e l im ina ted. Capital transactions March 27. Foreign financial investments of Chapter XIV of the CEIR for amoun ts of less than US$100,000 were exempted from the cash reserve requ iremen t. April 16. The repatriation of proceeds from investments abroad, inc lud ing profits, made through the formal market was exempted from the 30% reserve requirement. April 21. The l im it on investments abroad by pension funds was increased to 12% from 9%. April 26. Access to the formal exchange market was extended to allow for certain in- vestments abroad, wh ich in c lude the acqu is i t ion of real or f inanc ial assets, participation in companies, contracts for the exploration and exploitation of natural resources abroad, deposits abroad, and the granting of foreign credits. The obligation to in fo rm the CBC is maintained. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's Republic of China is the renm inbi (RMB). The currency un it is the yuan (100 fen = Yl and 10 fen = 1 jiao). Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Managed floating The exchange rate of the renminbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket. The People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a reference rate for the renm inbi against the U.S. dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the Japanese yen based on the weighted average price of foreign exchange transactions during the previous day's trading. Daily movement of the exchange rate of the renm inbi against the U.S. dollar is limited to 0.3% on either side of the reference rate as announced by the PBC. The buy- ing and selling rates of the renm inbi against the Hong Kong dollar and the Japanese yen may not deviate more than 1% on either side of the reference rate; in the case of other currencies, the deviations should not exceed 0.5% on either side of the ir respective ref- erence rates. The selling price for cash transactions is the same as the buy ing price for cash transactions for all quoted currencies. The buy ing price for cash should not exceed 2.5% of its spot rate. The Shanghai-based China Foreign Exchange Trading System (CFETS) is a nationally integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading. At present, it is electronically linked with 25 foreign exchange trading centers located in ma jor cities. All foreign exchange transactions are conducted through the system. Financial institu- tions involved in foreign exchange transactions must become members of the CFETS. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. China has terminated arrangements with Cuba, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Mongolia, Russia, and Vietnam. Cash settlements w i th these countries have been adopted. The PBC has authority over control and the State Adm in is tra t ion of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) is responsible for imp lemen t ing regulations. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 197 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trading of gold and silver is restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other approved users. Private persons may hold gold but not trade it. Nonresidents can buy gold, gold products, silver, and s i lver products but must present the invo ice to export them. Controls on external trade Un l im i ted amounts may be imported but must be declared. Exportation requ ires permits. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons The exportation of domestic currency is limited to RMB 6,000. Travelers on off ic ial business can carry as much foreign currency as needed. Residents going abroad can carry foreign currency in cash up to the equivalent of $1,000. For amounts exceeding $1,000, approval of the SAFE is requ ired. Banks w i ll issue a "permit to carry fore ign currency abroad" based on SAFE approval. n.a. The import of foreign currency must be declared to customs. Resident Accounts Domestic establishments may maintain specified categories of foreign exchange ac- counts w i th permits issued by SAFE. Fore ign-funded enterprises (FFEs) may open (1) foreign exchange settlement accounts for receipts and payments under the current ac- count w i th a max imum amount stipulated by the SAFE for each enterprise; and (2) for- eign exchange special accounts for receipts and payments under the capital account. Natural persons Foreign currency savings accounts may be opened w i th authorized banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is requ i red. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Domestic establishments in need of foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into fore ign currency at authorized banks by presenting va l id proof and commercial b i l l s. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts FFEs and jo int ventures can ma in ta in fore ign exchange accounts and use them to make authorized payments abroad. Persons staying in Ch ina for a short t ime may open fore ign currency savings accounts. These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but p r ior approval is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Imports and Import Payments Importers may make advance payment of loans not exceeding $100,000 at the banks, by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Prior SAFE approval is required for pay- ment of loans exceeding 15% of the contract amount or the equivalent of $100,000. Importers must prov ide va l id proof and commercial bills, ma in ly import permits, auto- matic registration permits, proof of import, customs declarations, verification forms for foreign exchange payments, import contracts, and the like to obtain foreign exchange or pay directly from the ir foreign exchange accounts. Preshipment inspection All imports requ ire pr ior inspection to their release by customs at the port of entry, Letters of credit n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list All enterprises other than registered foreign trade companies (FTCs) must obtain ap- proval from local foreign trade bureau, in accordance with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) authorization, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce, to engage in foreign trade. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are p roh ib i ted. In addition, the importation of weapons, ammun i t ion and explo- sives, radio receivers and transmitters, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and f i lms that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests is proh ib i ted. Licenses with quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Import tariff rates fall into 2 categories: general and preferential. Preferential rates are granted to imports from countries with which China has a trade treaty or agreement. Other imports are subject to the general rate of duty. The average unweighted tariff rate is 35.7%. Ch ina has a number of special economic zones where imports of inpu ts and capital goods are exempt from tariffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly FTCs conduct trade in specified products, inc lud ing wheat, chemical fertilizers, crude oil and oil products, rubber, steel, timber, plywood, polyester fibers, tobacco and its products, cotton, and wool. Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Domestic establishments must sell the ir export earnings to designated banks; FFEs may retain the ir export earnings, provided those earning do not exceed the max imum amount allowed for a foreign exchange surrender account as prescribed by the SAFE; otherwise the balance, if any, must be sold to authorized banks or sold through foreign exchange adjustment centers. F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 199 Exports of specific machine tools requ ire a license from the SAFE for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities for purposes of quality control. Controls in the form of registration for surve i l lance purposes are exercised on the importation of mach inery and electric equ ipment in order to monitor the supp ly and demand situation. Quotas for 24 product items are allocated through a b idd ing system under wh ich suc- cessful bidders are requ ired to guarantee max imum export va lue by o f fe r ing h igher benchmark export prices. Export taxes Export duties are levied on 47 products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Nontrade paymen ts by FFEs and pub l ic enterprises are subject to the same provisions. Resident i n d i v i d u a ls are subject to d i f fe rent regulations. Payments for fre ight and insur- ance, un load ing and storage, adm in is tra t ive expenses, commissions, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, consu l t ing and legal fees, as well as foreign workers' wages, gamb l ing and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, and remittances of prof- its and d iv idends are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide test. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed l im i ts (i.e., as a per- centage of f.o.b. pr ic ing. In the case of a h idden commission, the rebate should not ex- ceed 2% of total contract amount and, in the case of a stated commission, the rebate should not exceed 5%. If rebates exceed those percentages, they should be below $10,000). Traders may pay d irec t ly at authorized banks by presenting va l id proof and commercial b i l l s. The fore ign exchange requ i remen ts of companies w i th in the budget are prov ided accord- ing to the prescribed l im i ts. There are no restrictions on payments for travel of FFE staff. "Interim Regulations on Nontrade and Nonbus iness Foreign Exchange U t i l iza t ion ," pub l ished by the M in is try of Finance, imposes a l im it on the amount of foreign ex- change u t i l ized by persons t rave l ing abroad on official business. Residents trave l ing to Hong Kong, China, and Macao for personal reasons may purchase up to $500 worth of foreign currencies; ind iv idua ls trave l ing to other countries or regions ( inc lud ing Taiwan Province of Ch ina) may purchase up to $1,000 worth of foreign currencies. Approval of the SAFE is requ ired for amounts exceeding those l im i ts. Yes. Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to $500 for payments of medicines and med ical equ ipment abroad; for larger amounts, they must subm it appropriate documen- ta t ion for SAFE'S ve r i f ica t ion. Persons pay ing for the ir own studies abroad may be allowed a onetime purchase of for- eign exchange of up to $1,000. Larger amounts require the approval of the SAFE. Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Yes. Pensions, inc lud ing severance and separation payments, may be converted into foreign currency. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Yes. Surrender requirements Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Foreign grants and f inanc ial aid received by domestic establishments and foreign ex- change earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts may be ma in- tained w i th the approval of the SAFE; foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of international organizations and affiliates of foreign ju r id ical persons, resident persons and foreign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange; FFEs may retain foreign exchange earnings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the max imum l im it allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to authorized banks or through foreign exchange swap centers. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may only purchase B shares. The face value of B shares is denominated in renm inb i, wh ich are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and can only be bought by foreign investors. These transactions are not permitted. Residents, except f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing, and authorized indus tr ial and trade enterprises or groups are not permitted to purchase se- curities abroad. A qua l i f ica t ions review by the SAFE is requ ired for f inanc ial institu- tions to purchase securities abroad. Prior approval by the PBC, the SAFE, or the Securities Supervisory Board is requ ired. Issuing bonds abroad must be integrated w i th in the state's plan for u t i l iz ing foreign capital. Bonds can only be issued by f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions approved by the PBC. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents are not allowed to sell or issue money market instruments. Residents, except f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing, and authorized indu s t r ial and trade enterprises or groups are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions must undergo a review of qua l i f ica t ions by the SAFE before purchas ing foreign money market instruments. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad of securities, other than stocks, requ ires PBC and SAFE approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 201 On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no regulations, and if these instruments are traded, they must be approved by the Securities Policy Commission. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchase of money market ins trumen ts apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for sale or issue of money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Operations in such instruments by financial institutions are subject to prior review of qua l if ica t ions and to l im i ts on open foreign exchange positions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regu la t ions as for purchases apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Industrial and commercial enterprises may not provide lending to nonresidents. Provi- sion of loans to nonresidents by f inanc ial institutions is subject to review of qualifica- tions by the SAFE and to a foreign exchange asset-liability ratio requirement. Only financial ins t i tu t ions permitted by the SAFE to engage in external borrow ing and authorized indus tr ial and commercial enterprises or groups can engage in external bor- rowing of commercial credit. For credit over 1 -year maturity, the loan must be part of the state plan for u t i l i z ing foreign capital and must be approved by the SAFE. Short- term commercial credit (with a maturity of 1 year or less) is subject to foreign exchange balance requirements. Financial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrow ing are free to conduct short-term foreign borrowing w i th in the target balance w i thout ob- ta in ing approval, but must register the borrowing w i th the SAFE. Short-term foreign f inanc ing with maturity of 3 months or less provided to enterprises (excluding FFEs) is not subject to limitations, but short-term f inanc ing of longer than 3 mon ths is subject to short-term foreign exchange balance requirements, and the bor- row ing must be registered w i th the SAFE. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents w i thout obtaining approval, but must report the borrowing to SAFE. Financial credits Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The regu la t ion on External Guarantees Provided by Domestic Entities of September 1996 allows the prov is ion of guarantees by authorized f inanc ial institutions and non- f inanc ial legal entities that have foreign exchange receipts. Government agencies or ins t i tu t ions cannot provide guarantees. Foreign exchange is prov ided for the investment after a SAFE review of sources of for- eign exchange assets and an assessment of the investment risk invo lved, approval by MOFTEC, and registration w i th the SAFE. As long as nonresidents meet requirements under Sino-foreign jo in t -ven tu re laws and other relevant regu la t ions, and are approved by MOFTEC, nonresidents are free to in- vest in Ch ina. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as ex- change control is concerned. For env ironmen tal and security reasons, inward direct inves tment in some indus t r ies is p roh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for direct investment apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for direct investment apply, Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad Prior approval by the SAFE is required for domestic entities opening foreign exchange accounts abroad. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing is allowed subject to review of qualifications by the SAFE and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Lending is ma in ly subject to qua l if ica t ions review by the SAFE and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts Ch ina does not issue securities denominated in foreign currency. There are d i f fe rent reserve requirements for deposits in renm inbi and in foreign cur- rency, and also between the latter in domestic banks and in FFEs (i.e., 13% for deposits in renm inb i, 5% for any foreign currency deposit in domestic banks, and 3% for depos- its in foreign currency for over 3 months and 5% for less than 3 months, in FFEs). Bank foreign exchange l iqu id assets (1 year or less) should not be less than 60% of liq- uid liabilities (1 year or less) and 30% of total foreign exchange assets. Total deposits with 3-month maturities, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, funds used for purchasing transferable foreign-currency-denominated securities, deposits with the cen- tral bank, and cash ho ld ings should not be less than 15% of total foreign exchange as- sets. Nonbank foreign exchange l iqu id assets (1 year or less) should not be less than 60% of l iqu id l iab i l i t ies (1 year or less) and 25% of total assets. Total deposits with 3-month maturities, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, funds used for pur- chasing transferable foreign-currency-denominated securities, deposits w i th the central bank, and cash ho ld ings should not be less than 10% of total assets. Total loans, investment guarantees (calculated as 50% of the balance guaranteed), and other foreign exchange credits provided to a legal entity by banks or nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions should not exceed 30% of the foreign exchange capital owned by the banks or nonbank f inanc ial institutions. Bank equity investment should not exceed the difference between bank capital and mandatory pa id- in capital. Nonbank financial institutions' total equity investment (exc lud ing trust account) should not exceed the difference between their capital and mandatory pa id- in capital. For f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions trad ing foreign exchange on the ir own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the fore ign exchange wo rk ing capital. As authorized by the highest level of management, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions t rad ing foreign exchange on the ir own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but th is should not exceed 1% of the foreign ex- change wo rk ing capital. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements Resident accounts PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 203 Changes During 1996 December 1. Ch ina accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. July 1. Fore ign-funded banks were allowed to sell fore ign exchange for bona f ide trans- actions and become designated foreign exchange banks. July 1. FFEs fore ign exchange accounts were d is t ingu ished into 2 types: the fore ign exchange settlement account w i th a max imum amount stipulated by the SAFE for each enterprise for current account transactions; and the foreign exchange special account for receipts and payments for capital account transactions. July 1. FFEs were allowed to conduct their foreign exchange transactions either w i th banks or in the swap center. Payments for inv i s ib le transact ions and current transfers July 1. L im i ts on inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers by resident ind iv idua ls were increased. Bona fide requests of foreign exchange above these l im i ts are authorized by the SAFE, and provided by banks. Capital transact ions September 25. The regulation on External Guarantees Provided by Domestic Entities was passed, a l low ing for the prov is ion of guarantees by authorized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and non fmanc ial legal entities that have foreign exchange receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Co lomb ia is the Colombian peso. Var ious commemora t ive gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C la s s i f ica t ion Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange sub s idy Forward exchange market The Banco de la Republica (BR) conducts fore ign exchange transactions w i th the Minis- try of Finance (MOF) and authorized financial intermediaries. The BR announces the upper and lower l im i ts of a 14 percentage point band 10 days in advance for indicative purposes. The BR quotes buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies daily on the basis of the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All for- eign exchange operations take place at a market-determined exchange rate. The Superin- tendency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates (i.e., the we igh ted average of buy ing and se l l ing effected by foreign exchange market in termed iar ies, exc lud ing teller transactions). The government purchases foreign exchange for all pub l ic debt payments and other expenditures inc luded in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized intermediaries. The BR stands ready to sell fore ign exchange warrants (titulos canjcables por certiflcados de cambio) to pub l ic enterprises in the electric sector and to the National Federation of Coffee Growers. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 12 months, and w i th in the ir period of va l id i ty, may be sold to the BR for pesos at the reference market buy ing rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the ex- ternal loan, but never h igher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of de- posit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued less 1 percentage po int if held by p u b l ic sector recipients of external loans. Warrants he ld longer than 12 mon ths may be resold to the BR at the reference market rate on the last day of the twe l f th mon th. Surtaxes inc lude a 7% surtax on remittances of earnings on ex is t ing non-o il fore ign investments, a 12% surtax on remittances of earnings on ex is t ing foreign investments in the oil sector, and a 12% surtax on remittances of earnings from foreign inves tmen ts made after 1993. Also, a 10% w i thho ld ing tax on fore ign exchange receipts from per- sonal services and other transfers is applied. Tax credit certificates for non trad i t ional exports (CERTs) are granted at d i f fe rent per- centage rates. Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange rate risks with respect to fore ign exchange debts in conve r t ib le currencies registered at the BR on international markets. Res iden ts may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in U.S. do l lars. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescr ip t ion of currency requ iremen ts Payments and receipts are no rma l ly effected in U.S. dollars, but residents and f inanc ial in termed iar ies are a l lowed to carry out operations in any currency. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 205 Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Colombia ma in ta ins reciprocal credit agreements w i th Ch ina, Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The Customs and Taxes Directorate (DIAN) w i th in the MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the trade regulations. The Superintendency of Trade and Industry and the Superintendency of Banks are also responsible for the enforcement of exchange regula- tions. The authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial banks, financial corporations, the Financiera Energetica Nacional (FEN), the Banco de Comercio Exte- rior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), and savings and loans corporations. Exchange houses are authorized to carry out a range of foreign exchange activities. The BR keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of fore ign capital as we ll as the transfer of profits, d iv idends, and commissions. No. No. The BR effects domestic sales of gold for indus tr ial use directly at a price equ iva lent to the average quotation in the London gold market during the previous day; th is price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Accounts must be registered at the BR (compensation accounts) and may be used to pay for imports, to invest abroad in f inanc ial assets, or to carry out any other foreign ex- change operation. Approval required n.a. Held abroad Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to main- tain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the BR. Approval required n.a. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Credit ins t i tu t ions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from nonres ident i n d i v i d u a ls or f irms; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 COLOMBIA Domestic currency accounts Deposits in these accounts need not be registered at the BR; they may be used only for trade-related transactions. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addi- tion, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. However, foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free-trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from financial intermediaries. Import payments must be made within 6 months of the due date of the b i ll of lading. All imports must be registered at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). n.a. Yes. Yes. Most imports are free and require registration only with INCOMEX if the f.o.b. va lue exceeds $500. There is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list appli- cable only to LAIA member countries, and special lists applicable only to LAIA mem- ber countries and those of the Andean Pact. Imports of medicines, chemical products, and weapons and mun i t ions are subject to licensing requirements. Reimbursable imports invo lve purchases of official foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, inc lud ing imports of machinery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some pub l ic sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both im- port licenses and registrations are valid for 6 months, except those for agricultural and livestock products and for capital goods, which are valid for 3 months and for 12 months, respectively. Import licenses may be extended only once. n.a. n.a. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to the common external tariff of the Andean Pact. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements No. Surrender requirements All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized financial intermediar- ies w i th in 6 months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the BR. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free-trade areas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. On surrendering export proceeds in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 207 the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, pe tro leum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensa t ion) may receive tax credit certificates at any of 3 rates—2.5%, 4%, and 5% of domestic va lue added —depending on the p roduct and the country of des t ina t ion. These certificates, wh ich are free ly negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs du t ies, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing regu la t ions: (1) the m i n im um surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters pay a coffee con- t r ibu t ion on the basis of international market prices; (3) the National Coffee Committee (composed of the M in is ters of F inance and Agr icu l ture and the Managing Director of the Federation) may establish a phys ical coffee con t ingent on the basis of in te rna t ional coffee prices; and (4) the Na t ional Coffee Committee establishes a domestic price for export-type coffee expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the p u b l ic sector may be surrendered to f inanc ial in termed iar ies or to the BR. F inan c ing requ irements Documentat ion requ irements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses No. n.a. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on paymen ts for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in i s t ra t ive expenses, trave l, medical treatment, study abroad, subsc r ip t ions and membe r sh ip fees, con su l t ing and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, or fam i ly ma in tenance and a l imony. Contracts invo lv ing royalties, commissions, trade- marks, or patents shou ld be registered w i th INCOMEX for statistical purposes on ly. Interest payments Quantitative limits P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval The l im it on contractual interest rates of 2.5% over LIBOR rema ins in effect for the pub l ic sector, and there is a l im it of 20% a year in U.S. do l lar terms for the pr iva te sector. Capital must be registered w i th the BR before prof i ts can be repatriated. A n n u al trans- fers of profits abroad and repatriation of capital are not restricted, but they may be tem- po ra r i ly restricted if in te rna t ional reserve h o l d i n gs of the BR fa ll be low the e q u i v a l e nt of 3 mon ths of imports. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Indicative limits/bonafide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bonafide test n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Surrender requ iremen ts No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 COLOMBIA Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket ins trumen ts Purchases of these instruments, whether locally by nonresidents or abroad by residents, must be registered with the BR. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On co l lec t ive investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on der ivat ives and other in s trumen ts The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a Co lomb ian f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion requires the p r ior approval of the Supe r in tendency of Banks. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a f u nd established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the f inanc ial sector are permitted. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Controls on cred it opera t ions Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Credits must be registered w i th the BR, but short-term foreign borrowing is permitted. Foreign loans w i th maturities ranging from 1 day to 3 years are subject to a nonremu-- nerated deposit requ irement of 50% of the loan. The deposits are held for a period corre- spond ing to the loan maturities. Nonremunerated deposits are required for loans of over 6 months for imports; deposits are held for 18 months. Exempted from the deposit re- qu irement are credits for imports of capital goods; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters for up to 12 months; credit card balances; loans destined for Co lomb ian investments abroad; and green coffee, coal, and oil presh ipment f inanc ing. There is a l im it on contractual interest rates of 3% over LIBOR or the U.S. pr ime rate for the pub l ic sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts requ i re pr ior authorization from the MOF. For loans to the govern- ment, or guaranteed by the government, the fo l low ing are also requ ired: pr ior authoriza- tion from the Na t ional Counc il for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) and from the BR, pr ior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Pub l ic Credit, and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the ex- ecutive decree that authorizes the in i t ia t ion of negotiations. F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 209 Investments should be registered with the BR. Up to 100% ownership in any sector of the economy, except in defense, waste disposal, and real estate, is allowed. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and m in ing sectors. Repatriation of proceeds must be registered with the BR. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases shou ld be registered w i th the BR. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The l im it is 20% of net worth. There are no regulations governing the net foreign ex- change positions of exchange houses; they may sell the ir excess foreign ho ld ings to authorized financial intermediaries because they do not have access to the BR. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Capital transactions Changes During 1996 July 31. The prior authorization requirement for foreign direct investment was e l im i- nated. The authorization requirement for supplementary foreign investment, which was previously applied only to m in ing, was extended to other sectors. February 23. Foreign loans w i th ma tur i t ies ranging from 1 day to 3 years were subject to a nonremunerated deposit requ irement of 50% of the loan. Loans of over 6 mon ths for imports are subject to a nonremunerated deposit requ iremen t; these deposits are held for 18 months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Comoros is the Comorian franc. n.a. Unitary. The Comorian franc is pegged to the French franc at CF 1 per F 0.0133. Exchange rates for currencies are off ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros (CBC) and is provided to traders by the commercial bank (the only authorized dealer) for up to 3 months. In practice, this has not been effected. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun- try. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The Minister of Finance and Trade has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, the country's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, Repub l ic of Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Payment arrears Official Yes. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 211 Private n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Yes. Con tro ls on external trade Imports and exports of monetary gold requ i re pr ior au thor iza t ion. Imports and exports of articles con ta in ing gold are subject to declaration, but personal jewe l ry w i th in the l im it of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Yes. Residents t rave l ing to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may take out the equ iva lent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of pay- ment. Residents t rave l ing to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- t ions Account coun tr ies may take out any means of payment up to the equ iva lent of CF 250,000 a person a tr ip. Any amount in excess of these l im i ts is subject to CBC ap- proval, wh ich is granted if suppor t ive documen ta t ion is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equ iva lent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment is- sued abroad in the ir name w i thout p rov id ing documentary jus t i f ica t ion. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Resident and nonres ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of domestic bankno tes and coins. Foreign currency Travelers may b r ing in any amount of fore ign currency. E l i g i b i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts perm itted Held domestically Held abroad E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tural persons Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Resident Accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Opening of these accounts is permitted, but is not practiced. Nonresident Accounts n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 COMOROS F inan c ing requirements for imports No. Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements All import transactions must be dom ic i led with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Yes. n.a. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures The importation of most goods, except those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to ind iv idual licensing. Negative list The importation of certain goods is proh ib i ted from all countries for health or security reasons. Open general licenses n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are import duty rates of 20%, 30%, and 40%; a specific tax that varies by type of product; and an adm in is tra t ive fee of 3%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold immed ia te ly after repatriation to the authorized bank. Documentat ion requ irements With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of l icens ing requirements. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Yes. n.a. All export transactions must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank if the va lue is CF 500,000 or more. Yes. n.a. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted f ree ly. I n v i s i b le paymen ts to other countries are subject to approval, wh ich is granted when suppor t ing documen ts are produced. Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for study abroad, subscr ip t ions and membe rsh ip fees, consu l t ing and legal feels, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gam- b l ing and pr ize earnings, and fam i ly ma in tenance and a l imony are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Fre igh t / insurance Unloading/storage costs Adm in is t ra t ive expenses n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commissions Interest payments Profit/dividends Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits COMOROS 213 n.a. n.a. Repatriation of d iv idends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investments is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. n.a. n.a. Yes. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a tr ip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the CBC, which is granted if supporting documentation is provided. n.a. n.a. The same limits as for tourist and business travel apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated w i th in 1 month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold immediately to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds The use of proceeds is limited to Operations Account countries. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital flows between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are norma l ly permitted freely. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 COMOROS Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no local market in these instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a m in imum maturity of 90 days. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Controls relate to the approval of the under ly ing transactions, not to payments or receipts. Inward direct investment Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Lending does not take place in practice. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits There is no local market in these securities. n.a. n.a. n.a. Status under IMF Art ic les of Agreement June 1. Comoros accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO1 (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo is the new zai're. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Independent floating Exchange tax The external va lue of the new zai're is determined in daily f ix ing sessions, in wh ich all financial institutions and the Banque Nationale du Congo (BNC) participate. The rate emerging from the f ix ing session is based on the rate preva i l ing in the uno f f ic ial ex- change market. All commercial banks and financial ins t i tu t ions ( inc lud ing 91 bureaus) are permitted to trade in foreign exchange. Banks determine da i ly the va lue in new zai'res of the transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars and report to the BNC the calculated average effective buy ing and selling rates of the 3 currencies as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The BNC uses the fix- ing date to arrive at the average effective exchange rate of the new zai're against 23 other currencies and un i ts, based on the rates prov ided by the IMF between the U.S. dollar and the other currencies. The f ix ing rate is used as an indicative rate at the open ing of trad ing on the day of the ir pub l ica t ion and is applied to all government operations, in- cluding debt-service payments and the transactions of government-owned enterprises. On December 31, 1995, the rate pub l ished by the BNC was NZ 14,830.5 per $1, wh i le the parallel rate was NZ 15,800 per $1. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In their transactions w i th customers, commercial banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1%. The spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in the fore ign exchange market must not exceed 5%. Effec t ive December 27, 1996, a charge of 2% is levied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. Yes. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in 1 of the 23 conver t ib le cur- rencies whose rates are pub l ished daily by the BNC. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in 1 of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting nonresident ac- counts in new zai'res or in fore ign currency. Settlements w i th the member countries of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made through SDR and Central Afr ican Un it of Ac- count (UCAC) accounts established under arrangements concluded by the BNC w i th the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances in these convertible accounts at the end of a settlement period —each quarter for CEPGL countries and each mon th for CEEAC countries —are transferab le into the currency stipulated by the creditor. V i r tu- ally all settlements (other than for reexports) w i th member countries of the CEEAC are effected th rough accounts w i th foreign correspondent banks after clearing th rough the Central African Clearing House through its account w i th the BNC. 1 Formerly known as Zaire. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Yes. Yes. There are arrangements w i th Bu rundi and Rwanda. Payments are made through the SDR accounts of the BNC and the central banks of the other 2 countries. The BNC regulates exchange transactions, supervises authorized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange positions. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only nationals of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, trans- port, sell, or ho ld gold w i th in the country outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive m in ing concessions. Foreign ind iv idua ls or corporate persons and corporate persons by law may do so only on behalf of and for the account of authorized marketing agencies. Controls on external trade Exports of gold and diamonds by authorized marketing agencies do not requ ire prior authorization from the BNC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of banknotes and coins of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo is permitted on ly up to the equ iva lent of $100. However, the exportation of these banknotes and coins by travelers from Bu rundi and Rwanda is authorized w i t h in the l im i ts of the agreements concluded between the members of the CEPGL. Foreign currency Yes. On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The importation of banknotes of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo is permitted up to the equ iva lent of $100. An un l im i ted amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought in to the country. Resident Accounts E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld domestically Held abroad Effec t ive December 27, 1997, these accounts are permitted. These accounts, wh ich may be credited or debited w i thout restrictions, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for wh ich the BNC pub l ishes ex- change rates. Yes. Pub l ic and/or sem ipub l ic enterprises may open foreign bank accounts w i th p r ior au thor iza t ion from the BNC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 217 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited or debited without restriction, effective from December 27, 1996. These accounts may be credited or debited without restriction. Prior approval is requ ired. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BNC. F inanc ing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection With a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zai'rian Control Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verifi- cation may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the BNC. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of up to SDR 1,000 a tariff item, or up to SDR 5,000 a shipment. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses All importers are required to first obtain an Import License and Authorization to Pur- chase Foreign Currency. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Prior approval from the BNC is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign contribu- tions to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign f inanc ing w i th a maturity of more than 1 year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the government; (3) imports requ ir ing a down payment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) imports requiring special authorization from the government and imports of currency, coins, and articles imitating or bearing mone- tary symbols of the Democratic Republic of the Congo's currency. Import licensing requirements were eliminated on December 27, 1996. All goods shipped by sea must be transported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zai'rois de gestion des frets maritimes and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Yes. Certain imports, inc lud ing arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials con- trary to pub l ic morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authorization from the government. Most imports are sub ject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In gen- eral, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; an importer wishing to extend the validity period must so indicate in the import documents accompanying the declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authorization ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO from the BNC. Imports of goods intended for expansion of a capital base or for the im- porter's own use may be effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 for each tariff item and SDR 5,000 a ship- ment, and that the shipments are financed from the importer's own resources. Import taxes and/or tariffs The customs tariff rates range from 15% to 50%, with a special rate of 5% for some equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges up to 20%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated within 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank w i th in 10 days after the date of shipment. With exports on consignment, export pro- ceeds shall be repatriated as soon as the merchandise has been sold. Surrender requirements were eliminated on December 27, 1996. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the OZAC; coffee exports also require a quality certificate from the Zairian office for coffee (OZACAF). Licensing requirements for exports were lifted on December 27, 1996. Exporters must f i le an exchange document (declaration of foreign exchange commit- ment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declara- tions must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, its price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Export taxes Export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Consulting/legal fees Prior approval There are no controls on payments for unloading and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, and the use of credit cards abroad. Payments for freight and insurance, commis- sions, profits and dividends, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, and remittances of profits and d iv idends are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Payment of commissions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Prior approval for this type of transaction was required up to December 27, 1996. Prior approval for this type of transaction was required up to December 27, 1996. Prior approval for this type of transaction was required up to December 27, 1996. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 219 Prior approval for th is type of transaction was required up to December 27, 1996. Transfer abroad of foreigners' wages for the preceding year is limited. Transfer abroad of expatriates' wages is limited to 50% of net wages in the case of new employees, pro- vided that the remaining 50% is adequate to cover local needs. Prior approval for this type of transaction was required up to December 27, 1996. Up to December 27, 1996, the amount transferable had to be jus t if ied. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign cur- rency account. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the authorized banks as needed by the account holders. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments There are controls on treasury b i ll transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Equ i ty contributions are authorized, and transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. Outward direct investment Approval was required up to December 27, 1996. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted only at the t ime of l iqu ida t ion, nationalization, or partial or total transfers of shares. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Sale locally by nonresidents Up to December 27, 1996, the proceeds were required to be paid into special accounts of nonresidents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Bridge loans require prior consent of the BNC. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The ce i l ing on the foreign exchange position of each bank is authorized by the BNC. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Resident accounts Nonresident accounts December 27. Authorized banks were required to assess a charge of 2% on any ex- change operation. December 27. All restrictions on opening and operating these accounts were l if ted. December 27. All restrictions on opening and operating these accounts were l if ted. Imports and import payments December 27. The import licensing requirement was abolished. Exports and export proceeds December 27. All surrender requirements and the licensing requirement for exports were eliminated. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions December 27. All transactions were further liberalized. December 27. Residents were allowed to borrow abroad for investment in the Demo- cratic Republic of the Congo. December 27. Proceeds from sales of real estate by nonresidents were required to be paid into special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA franc. The CFA franc is issued by the BEAC and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buy ing and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Ex- change transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to all coun- tries are subject to a commission of 0.75%, with a m in imum charge of CFAF 75; ex- empt from this commission are payments of the state, the Postal Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Republic of Congo. Foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office is subject to a commis- sion of 0.5%, with a m in imum charge of CFAF 100. An additional commission of 0.25% is levied on all payments to countries that are not members of the BEAC. No. No. There are no spot or forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since the Republic of Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. n.a. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Payments to the fo l low ing countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Economy, Planning, and Finance (MEPF), which has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. n.a. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior authorization of the MEPF is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The prior authorization of the MEPF is required to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. n.a. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in French francs. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were applied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents' authorized banks mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville may not be credited to foreign ac- counts in francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 223 Convertible into foreign currency Approval required n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit n.a. n.a. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs An annual import program classifies imports by zones: (1) the countries of the UDEAC; (2) France; (3) other Operations Account countries; (4) EU countries other than France; and (5) all rema in ing countries. Thirteen product items under this program require li- censes, and others are subject to ex post declaration. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and w i thout li- censes fo l low ing the implementation of the 1994 UDEAC customs and tax reforms. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Imports of cement are subject to quotas. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance compa- nies in the Repub l ic of Congo. The common duty rates of the UDEAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods products requ i r ing special protection. Intra- UDEAC customs duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been introduced on imports of goods prev ious ly subject to quantitative restrictions. These surcharges are to be eliminated in 3 to 6 years, w i th the longer period app ly ing to certain agricultural and textile products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to countries outside the BEAC zone must be collected and repa- triated w i th in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at the ir destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 8 days of the due date. n.a. n.a. All export transactions relating to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Preshipment inspection n.a. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes In pr inc ip le, all exports require an exchange commitment. But most exports to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Yes. n.a. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are only subject to declaration and presen- tation of appropriate documents to the MEPF for approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the mon i tor ing func t ion of the MEPF has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Adm in i- stration. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Yes. n.a. Transfers of income are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Allowances in excess of the limits are subject to the authorization of the MEPF. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in French francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 m i l l ion a trip; and (3) for official travel, the equivalent of ex- penses paid and CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of pay- ment at the ir disposal at the t ime of departure and to surrender w i th in 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. There is a l im it of CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits REPUBLIC OF CONGO 225 The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Republic of Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within 3 months of the pay period. Transfers by residents of amounts smaller than CFAF 500,000 to nonmember countries of the franc zone are subject to simple declaration, and those exceeding CFAF 500,000 require prior authorization. Transfers to nonmember countries by nonresidents living in the Republic of Congo for less than 1 year are subject to authorization. Members of diplomatic missions, employees of in- ternational organizations, employees of companies operating in the Republic of Congo, government employees, and members of liberal professions are exempt from this regulation. Yes. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEPF, is limited to the ceilings applied for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All amounts due from residents of foreign countries with respect to services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due. Surrender requirements Proceeds should be surrendered within 1 month of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements between the Republic of Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are sub- ject to a commission of 0.25% in addition to the 0.75% commission. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are gen- erally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in the Republic of Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Repub l ic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEPF. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congo- lese government; and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Repub l ic of Congo has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirement that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad. All lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained from the MEPF. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks and (2) other loans whose total amount outstanding does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any 1 lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be re- ported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations w i th in 20 days. Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEPF. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any 1 borrower, the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least 2 years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. Yes. Yes. The prior approval of the MEPF is required. Investments (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indi- rectly controlled by persons in the Republic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo) require the prior ap- proval of the MEPF, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The new Investment Code adopted on March 6, 1996, simplifies procedures relating to private, domestic, and foreign investment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments must be declared to the MEPF within 20 days. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June L The Republic of Congo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Capital transactions March 6. A new Investment Code came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican colon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax The external value of the colon is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among authorized traders, which is where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its intervention operations. Foreign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized insti- tutions outside the MONED. The government and pub l ic sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transactions with the state commercial banks and the CB at the official reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market du r ing the day. A tax of 15% calculated on the average daily spread between buy ing and selling rates applies to all foreign exchange transactions in the interbank market. Forward exchange market No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and Financial Ins t i tu t ions (SUGEF). International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Natural and ju r id ical persons may buy or sell domestically produced gold (except na- tional archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 COSTA RICA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Commerce. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Customs tariffs on most goods range from 5% to 20%. In addition, the fo l low ing taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (2) selective consumption taxes at rates ranging from zero to 75%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly Imports of fuels are made by the Costa Rican Oil Refinery and imports of grains by the National Production Council. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days before the end of the fiscal year. Surrender requirements No. Documentation requirements An export form (formulario unico de exportation) must be filed. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for the following: armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; sugar from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane; beans, rice, ipecacuanha root, onions, cot- ton, meat, and thoroughbred cattle from the National Council of Production; airplanes from the C iv il Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the National Museum; tobacco from the To- bacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and wild animals and plants of the forest from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; and coffee from the Coffee Institute. In addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the CB grants an export license. Taxes are levied on traditional exports and, in some cases, are graduated in line w i th international prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 229 Central America, and exporters of these products are entitled to receive freely negotiable tax credit certificates at the following rates based on f.o.b. value: 15% for exports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20% for exports to Canada. These certifi- cates ceased to be issued to new exporters after 1992, but exporters existing at that time benefit from them consistent with previous contractual arrangements. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments, but a 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on profits, dividends, and remittances of interest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or their financial entities recognized by the CB as institutions normally engaged in interna- tional transactions, and for interest payments on government borrowing abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Repatriation must take place w i th in 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. Surrender requirements No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments There are no controls on transactions on these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The National Budget Authority (composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, and the President of the CB) is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Private commercial banks, finance companies, and cooperatives must inform the CB when contracting credits abroad. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. Controls on real estate transact ions No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Imports and import payments March 19. The sales tax was reduced to 13% from 15%. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cote d' lvo ire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from all countries outside the WAEMU. However, banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond 1 month for cer- tain specified goods and 3 months for goods designated essential commodities with no renewal of cover possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted with prior authorization from the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary, and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Economics, Finance, and Planning (MEFP), only for payments for imports of goods and only for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Cote d ' lvo i re is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary, and Banking Affairs in the MEFP. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MEFP, which is seldom granted. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency COTE D'lVOIRE 231 The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits at local banks. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in 8 days. * Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MEFP. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 are subject to this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 COTE D'lVOIRE Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Inspection for quality and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 million; im- ports valued between CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion and CFAF 3 million may be subject to random inspection. Letters of credit are required for goods imported from outside EU, Operations Account countries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requ ir ing licenses issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely import- able goods. Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the Ministry of Commerce. A maximum tariff rate of 35% is in effect. A statistical tax of 2.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. Imports from members of the WAEMU and the ECOWAS are ex- empt from the surcharges. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports, inc lud ing to countries in the Operations Account area, must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Export receipts must be collected through authorized intermediary banks w i th in 1 month of the due date. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentat ion requirements Exports require a customs declaration. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a spe- cific unitary export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the Price Stabilization Fund. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. All exports valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through an auction. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely. Payments for travel Prior approval Allowances in excess of these limits are subject to authorization from the MEFP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 233 Quantitative limits The limits are CFAF 500,000 a tr ip for tourism and CFAF 75,000 a day up to 1 month for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im i ts are the same as for tourist travel, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The limits are the same as for tourist travel, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Credit cards can be used up to the ceilings for tourist and business travel, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements All proceeds must be collected and repatriated in f u ll from transactions with non- Operations Account countries. All proceeds from transactions with non-Operations Account countries must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements to foreign countries are restricted. Capital may freely enter the member countries of the WAEMU, except with respect to direct investment subject to prior declaration and certain loan operations requiring advance authorization. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th: (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the government of Cote d ' lvo i re; and (2) foreign shares similar to secu- rities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Cote d ' lvo i re has already been authorized. W i th the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France, Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the solicit- ing of funds for deposit w i th foreign natural persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. These transactions are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP. The issue or sale of securities that have been authorized in advance may be purchased by a resident only after the latter has obtained prior approval of the MEFP. Securities sales consisting of the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tment by means of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident may be freely executed, subject to the prescriptions concerning the f inanc ial settlement of the operation. Settlement of the operation on securities by transfer abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 COTE D'lVOIRE or by crediting a nonresident account requires the preparation of an exchange authoriza- tion submitted for the approval of the MEFP in support of documents attesting to the validity of the operation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents are free to sell the securities of resident corporations abroad. If these opera- tions result in the foreign control of establishments resident in Cote d'lvoire, the foreign investors are required to file a declaration in advance with the MEFP. Securities sales invo lv ing the liquidation of an investment abroad are subject to prior declaration to the MEFP. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surren- dered to an authorized intermediary bank. These sales are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP (except sales involving the liquidation of an investment, which are restricted). Transfer of the proceeds of these operations requires the preparation of an exchange authorization submitted for the ap- proval of the MEFP in support of documents attesting to the validity of the operation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may freely sell money market instruments abroad. Sales involving the liqui- dation of an investment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign ex- change from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorization intermediary bank. The issue of money market instruments abroad by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are almost nonexistent in Cote d'lvoire, fall within the scope of the regulatory framework generally applicable to securities and investments. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. For the issue of securities constituting a loan, the borrower must request advance authorization from the MEFP. However, this authorization is not required for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. These credits may be granted subject to the following provisions: (1) Debts arising from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date. The payment due date is the date specified in the commercial contract. It must in any case be no more than 120 days after the shipment of the goods. (2) Debts arising from payment for services must also be collected and surrendered on the exchange market no later than 2 months after the pay- ment due date. No administrative limit is set for this due date. These credits may be freely granted. Their repayment is generally authorized, subject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents COTE D'lVOIRE 235 The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization is prepared and submitted w i th the required vouchers to the MEFP. These facilities may be freely granted and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorization intermediary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct investment company established in Cote d' lvo ire and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEFP. The transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service a loan is subject to authorization if the loan itself required prior authorization. Requests for authorization must be accom- panied by all supporting documents necessary to ensure the va l id i ty of the operation: authorization to borrow, references from the report prepared in connection with dis- bursement of the proceeds of the loan, and the like. The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization is prepared and submitted, with the required vouchers, to the MEFP. These facilities may be freely granted and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorization intermediary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct investment company established in Cote d ' lvo i re and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to p r ior declaration to the MEFP. Investment abroad ( inc lud ing purchases of real estate) by a resident is subject to prior authorization by the MEFP, which must be requested by the party concerned in a letter designating the authorized intermediary that w i ll execute payment. This payment, by transferring funds abroad or by crediting a foreign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the t ime period agreed by the parties. Investments are subject to prior declaration to the MEFP, which has a period of 2 months in which to request the suspension of the operation. The transfer of a direct in- vestment by a nonresident to another nonresident is also subject to prior declaration. Special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain pr ior i ty sectors and pr ior i ty geographical areas. The incen t ives inc lude exemption from customs duties and tar iffs on all imported capital equ ipment and spare parts for investment proj- ects, provided that no equ iva lent item is produced in Cote d' lvo ire. In addition, all such investments are exempt for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate p ro f it taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In gen- eral, the exemption covers 100% of applicable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75% of the tax in the third-to-last year, 50% in the second-to-last year, and 25% in the last year. Imports of raw ma ter ia ls for wh ich no equ iva len ts are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Proceeds may be free ly transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs after presentation of the requ is i te vouchers to the MEFP and the m in is t ry 's response. The l iqu id a t ion of investments, whe ther Ivo i r ien investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d ' lvo i r e, must be reported to the m in is t ry w i th in 20 days of the operation. Purchases are subject to pr ior authorization by the MEFP, wh ich must be requested by the party concerned in a letter designating the authorized intermediary that w i ll execute payment. This payment, by transferring funds abroad or by crediting a fore ign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the t ime period agreed by the parties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 COTE D'lVOIRE Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases can be freely made if they are not direct investments in a business, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs after presentation of the requisite vouchers to the MEFP and the ministry's response. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover the requirements of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These operations can be freely executed in the case of commercial credits or are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP in the case of loans, financial credits, or the pur- chase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange General regulations on lending locally in foreign currency or purchasing locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange apply. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 1. Cote d ' lvo i re accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Croatia is the kuna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Croatia (NBC) may set intervention exchange rates, which it ap- plies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market for leveling undue fluctua- tions in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The NBC has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a very limited forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative There is an arrangement with Italy. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade The NBC formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign ex- change regulations. A trade law was enacted on February 17, 1996. Companies w ish ing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. The representative offices of foreign companies must be registered w i th the Ministry of Economy (MOE). Yes. Yes. Yes. The exportation of unprocessed gold and gold coins by producers of gold or by author- ized commercial banks is subject to the approval of the NBC. Importation of gold is subject to the approval of the MOE. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 CROATIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Resident natural persons may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 1,000. An addi- tional amount equivalent up to DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is with- drawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. In both cases, the NBC may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Resident Accounts Resident natural and jur id ical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign ex- change accounts only in Croatia. However, the NBC has the authority to allow resident jur id ical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and to meet the requirement of regular foreign trade activities abroad. The law also makes specific provisions for resident juridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the NBC. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and jur id ical persons may open foreign exchange accounts with fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad for conversion into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic currency into a foreign currency is permitted. As a measure against money laundering, jur id ical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign banknotes exceeding $20,000, without spe- cial permission from the NBC. Effective March 12, 1997, nonresident jur id ical persons can withdraw up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000 each month from their deposit accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened with the proceeds from sales of goods and services or with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange may be purchased with funds held in these accounts without restriction. Blocked accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (natural persons) of the former Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were blocked and have been replaced by claims on the Croatian government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 239 Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Advance payments for imports are permitted, except where down payments are required by suppliers in accordance with customary international practices. Invoice of agreement is required for transfers. Import quotas were abolished by the decree of Ju ly 12, 1996, although such quotas are, in principle, allowed for under the trade law, under conditions similar to WTO rules. All imports are free from licensing requirements except for a list of products whose impor- tation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work), and a small number of other products (notably iron tubes in bars). The importation of these items is allowed on a case-by-case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports are subject to customs tar iffs of up to 25%, w i th a few exceptions. The exemp- tion for du ty-free imports by travelers is $100. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the va lue of $500 are subject to a s imp l i f ied customs procedure w i th a un i f i ed tariff rate of 8%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import ta r i f fs and taxes are applied. Re tu rn ing citizens may br ing into the country household effects duty free in an amount that is relative to the period spent abroad for household effects and for private business purposes w i thout restrictions, but are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance on a case-by-case basis. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw ma- terials and intermediate products used in the production of exports are exempt from all import duties and taxes, provided that the value added of the export product is at least 30% of the va lue of the imported items and that export proceeds are received in con- vertible currency. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ irements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Guarantees Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in fu ll w i th in 90 days of date of ex- portation. This period may be extended up to 150 days with permission from the NBC. If payment terms in excess of 90 days have been agreed to w i th foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be registered w i th the NBC. No. No. Yes. Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for wh ich permits must be obtained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); several basic foods tuffs to ensure ade- quate domestic supplies; unrenewab le resources (oil and natural gas); and hides and wood. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 CROATIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those apply- ing to exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, except in central bank short-term securities in the primary market. In general, outward portfolio investment is restricted. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase abroad by residents The restriction applies to natural persons only. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Only purchases on the primary market are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The restriction applies to natural persons only. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchases by jur id ical persons are free but those by natural persons require approval from the NBC. Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The restriction applies to natural persons only. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing commercial banks, may borrow abroad but are required to register the loans contracted with the NBC. Resident ju r id ical persons may extend financial credits to nonresidents if the credit rep- resents shares. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 241 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Such investments must generally be undertaken through loans abroad or through rein- vestment of profits. Foreign direct investment abroad by residents must be registered with the MOE within 30 days from the signature of the contract. Inward direct investment Investments must be registered with the commercial courts only. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, inc lud ing tax payments. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may acquire real estate abroad on the basis of reciprocity of treatment, but in practice, they are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market for this purpose; the use of balances in foreign exchange accounts for this purpose is also prohibited. Nonresident natural persons may acquire real estate in Croatia through inheritance as long as their country of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may purchase real estate only under the same conditions. Nonresident natural or juridical persons en- gaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these condi- tions and may sell it to resident or nonresident ju r id ical persons. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange No. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 30% of the bank's Tier 1 capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Investment funds may not invest more than 5% of the value of the fund in the securities of a single issuer. However, this l im it may increase to 10% provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addition, in- vestment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer only if the total face value of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face va lue of all the bonds of the same issuer, if they are in circulation. For purposes of determining this limit, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one- half their face value. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments February 17. A trade law was enacted. July 12. Import quotas were removed. Changes During 1996 Capital transactions February 17. Domestic jur id ical persons were permitted to invest abroad in the form of foreign direct inves tment (on the basis of the new trade law). Changes During 1997 Nonresident accounts March 12. Foreign ju r id ical persons were permitted to withdraw up to the foreign cur- rency equivalent of HRK 15,000 each month from their deposit accounts at authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The Cyprus pound is pegged to a basket based on the ECU at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, within margins of 2.25% around the ECU central rate. Subject to certain limitations, inc lud ing a l im it on spreads between buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. No. No. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward margins may not be larger than those applied by the Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) for cover for a similar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase forward cover from the CBC at pre- va i l ing rates or to conduct forward operations between 2 foreign currencies for cover in 1 of the 2 currencies. The CBC offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months and for imports normally for up to 9 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation with authorized dealers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of for- eign exchange for a number of bona fide transactions. On October 7, 1993, the CBC notified the IMF of restrictions imposed previously against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursuant to relevant UN Security Council resolutions. These restrictions were terminated on October 16, 1996, but bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen. Economic sanctions against Iraq, Libya and the UNITA organization pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions are administered by the CBC and relevant government departments. Payment arrears No. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 243 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for num isma t ic collection pur- poses. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold b u l l i on at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bu l l ion requires the permission of the CBC. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold b u l l i on only for the purpose of disposing of it to indus tr ial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 100. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. In the case of failure to declare the banknotes imported on arrival, nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in Cypriot or foreign banknotes. Authorized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks in exchange for fo re ign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from authorized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arri- val, as well as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds. In addition, departing nonresidents may convert, through authorized dealers, domestic currency up to £C 100 into foreign banknotes, which they can export. Nonresidents entering Cyprus should declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes that they plan to reexport, deposit w i th authorized dealers, or use to purchase immovab le property or goods to export. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Residents dealing with transit trade may deposit up to 97.5% of sale proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for the va lue of traded goods. Residents engaged in manufacturer-exporter activities may deposit up to 50% of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in produc t ion. Both transit traders and manufacturers-exporters are, however, required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances in excess of the amount that is nec- essary for payments of traded goods or raw materials dur ing the fo l low ing 3 months. Resident hoteliers may deposit in such accounts part of their receipts in foreign currency that they need to make imm inent installment payments on foreign currency loans. Ap- proval of the CBC is required for residents other than those referred to above and below. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency accounts, external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad all of their foreign currency ho ld ings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident ind iv idua ls temporarily work ing abroad may maintain the ir foreign currency earnings in foreign currency ac- counts, external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad. Ap- proval of the CBC is requ ired for residents other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph. Such approval, however, is granted on ly in exceptional circumstances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 CYPRUS Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents may open and maintain accounts with authorized dealers, which may be credited freely w i th payments from nonresidents (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency accounts), with proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents ( inc lud ing declared banknotes), and with authorized payments from residents in Cyprus pounds. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status (generally designated as offshore compa- nies) by the CBC as we ll as the ir nonresident employees may maintain foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the same regulations as for fore ign currency accounts apply. Blocked accounts Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately be transferred outside of Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as de- posits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident beneficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to £C 50,000 in principal may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus. Funds can also be released from blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his or her fam i ly, inc lud ing educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the CBC. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Prior approval of the CBC is required for amounts exceeding £C 50,000. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; for larger amounts, approval by the CBC is required. Documentat ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Most imports are free of l icens ing requirements. A license is required for a small num- ber of commodities prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 245 Nonresidents may not import commodities into Cyprus unless they are granted a special import license by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism. The importation of goods such as motor vehicles to be used temporarily by visitors, goods to be exhibited in Cyprus and reexported, etc. is not subject to this requirement. The import of goods originating in Turkey is prohibited. Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose value exceeds £C 1,000 are subject to exchange control monitoring to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers without delay. No. Yes. There are no licensing requirements, but the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism may restrict certain exports or exports to a specific destination when deemed necessary on the grounds of public interest or to comply with Cyprus's international obligations. Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the CBC, but approval for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. If the payment exceeds £C 5,000, documentary evidence must be subsequently submit- ted to the CBC. The CBC approves applications for the remittance of insurance premi- ums owed to foreign insurance companies. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Administrative expenses Prior approval Commissions Prior approval Yes. Yes. Payments in excess of 5% of the price of exported goods require prior approval of the CBC. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 CYPRUS Profit/dividends Payments for travel Quantitative limits Profits and dividends from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad without limitation after payment of due taxes and charges. Authorized dealers are allowed, without reference to the CBC, to sell to resident travel- ers foreign exchange up to £C 1,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Moreover, pay- ments for travel may be made through credit cards issued by authorized dealers. The allowance for business travel is £C 150 a day with a maximum of £C 1,500 a trip, or £C 80 a day with a maximum of £C 800 a trip if the traveler holds an international busi- ness credit card. Authorized dealers may approve, without reference to the CBC, appli- cations by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents and hotels up to £C 10,000 for each organized trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBC approves applications for higher amounts to cover bona fide expenses without limitation. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im it is £C 5,000 for medical expenses abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Unlimited additional amounts are provided with the approval of the CBC. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living, which is reviewed yearly. The current annual allowance for l iv ing expenses for studies in Greece is £C 4,000; for other western European countries, £C 5,800; for North America, £C 7,200; for Australia, £C 4,300; and for all other countries, £C 4,000. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Greater amounts may be allowed with the approval of the CBC. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval of the CBC is required for amounts higher than £C 300. Authorized dealers may carry out payments for subscription to professional bodies or societies up to £C 300 a transaction. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus by resident firms or ind iv idua ls and are paid in local currency may deposit with authorized dealers up to £C 500 of their monthly remuneration in external or foreign currency accounts, the balance of which may be freely transferred abroad without reference to the CBC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Deposits or transfers of amounts greater than £C 500 need approval of the CBC. Pensions Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents may remit, through authorized dealers, up to £C 200 every 6 months to rela- tives or other persons who reside abroad without reference to the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 247 Indicative limits/bona fide test Prior approval of the CBC is required for greater amounts. Credit card use abroad Authorized dealers may issue personal credit cards valid abroad to any resident, except for residents studying abroad or temporarily l iv ing abroad. These cards, which are des- ignated as international personal cards, may be used abroad for payments to hotels and restaurants; transportation expenses; doctors, clinics, or hospitals; international tele- phone calls; cash withdrawals up to £C 100 a tr ip; and any other payments of a total value not exceeding £C 300 a trip. In addition, international personal cards may be used for payments abroad or from Cyprus up to £C 300 for each transaction for the fo l low ing purposes: examination fees, application fees for admission to foreign educational insti- tutions, subscriptions to professional bodies or societies, fees for enrollment in profes- sional or educational seminars or conferences, and hotel reservation fees. International personal cards may also be used for mail orders of books up to £C 300. Authorized dealers may also issue company cards valid abroad (designated as interna- tional business cards) to resident businessmen and professionals who are invo lved in the international trade of goods or services and travel abroad on business. Holders of inter- national business cards may charge mail orders of books or equipment for the company up to £C 1,000, as we ll as the payments allowed for holders of international personal cards. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions Capital transfers abroad require authorization from the CBC. Nonresident aliens may own up to 49% of the issued capital of pub l ic companies (i.e., companies whose shares are admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange) other than banks, wh i le there is no l im it on the total percentage of the capital of such companies owned by nonresidents of Cypriot origin, provided each nonresident (Cypriot or alien) person's shareholding does not exceed 5% of the company's issued capital. For pub l ic companies in the bank ing sector, the l im it on total nonresident (Cypriot and alien) participation is 15% of the company's issued capital, of wh ich not more than 6% may be owned by nonresident aliens, provided each nonresident person's shareholding does not exceed 0.5% of the company's issued capital. Pub l ic companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transactions w i th nonresidents without reference to the CBC, subject to the l im i ts described above. Applications over these limits may be approved by the CBC. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Outward portfolio investment is permitted only for Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily work ing abroad, who may freely use the ir balances in foreign currency or external accounts to purchase securities abroad, and for resident employees of mu l t ina- tional enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered to them by the ir employer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 CYPRUS Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase treasury b i l ls denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Issuance requires prior approval of the CBC. Except for banks and institutional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents tem- porarily working abroad may purchase money market instruments abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of securities issued by pub l ic investment companies in Cyprus is permit- ted w i th in the l im i ts applied to capital market securities. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Except for institutional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad may purchase such securities abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits with a maturity of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely granted. Other credits require approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with a maturity of up to 200 days for imports of goods to Cyprus may be negotiated freely. Other credits are subject to approval of the CBC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents other than authorized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits w i thout the approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents These credits are subject to approval by the CBC, which is usually granted for produc- tive projects. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees w i thout reference to the CBC in several cases inc lud ing tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the refund of advance payments, and guaran- tees in respect of any other transactions where an immediate payment to the nonresident beneficiary could be made under the existing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior approval of the CBC is required. Approval of the CBC is required. The amount of capital that can be directly transferred abroad is limited to £C 0.5 m i l l ion. If only the issue of a guarantee is required, the amount of the guarantee should not exceed £C 1 m i l l ion. In cases where direct transfer of capital as well as a guarantee is required, the total amount should not exceed £C 1 m i l l ion, provided the amount of capital to be directly transferred does not exceed £C 0.5 m i l l ion. In exceptional cases where it appears certain that a large part of the in- vestment w i ll be repatriated in a short time, the governor of the CBC may approve larger amounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 249 Investments require prior approval of the CBC. In most cases, foreign participation of up to 100% is permitted. An application may be rejected if the proposed investment w i ll affect national security, have adverse environmental effects, is deemed harmful for the Cypriot economy, or if the amount to be invested is lower than indicative m in imum limits. In the primary sector, foreign participation of up to 49% is allowed. Applications are examined by the CBC in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Re- sources, and Environment. There is no l im it on the percentage of foreign participation in the manufacturing sector, or in wholesale and retail trade. The CBC handles the applications if the foreign partici- pation does not exceed 49% and the amount to be invested is lower than £C 750,000. Otherwise, applications are considered jo in t ly by the CBC and the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Tourism. For most other activities, foreign participation of up to 100% is permitted. Over 70 types of services have been classified into 2 categories for wh ich the indicative m in imum limits of investment are £C 50,000 and £C 100,000. Investors in the tourism sector are subject to the government tourism policy applicable at the time. The current policy, wh ich was introduced in 1995, provides for up to 49% of foreign participation in hotels and other tourism establishments. However, up to 100% of foreign participation may be allowed for supplementary tourism projects such as golf courses, marinas, etc. Applications for the establishment of new banks, insurance or financial companies, newspaper and magazine publishing houses, and new airlines are considered on a case- by-case basis, and the extent of allowable foreign participation is decided on the merits of each ind iv idual case. For a small number of activities that are considered saturated, no foreign participation is allowed. These activities include land development and education and pub l ic u t i l i ty services governed by specific legislation, such as distribution of electricity, telecom- munications, etc. Proceeds may be repatriated in f u ll at any time after payment of taxes. Residents are generally not allowed to purchase real estate abroad, except when the real estate is part of an authorized direct investment project. Nonresidents cannot acquire immovable property in Cyprus other than by inheritance, except w i th the approval of the Council of Ministers, and they are required to pay the purchase price with foreign exchange. Nonresidents of Cypriot origin do not need ap- proval of the Council of Ministers. Foreign investments in real estate for speculative purposes are not approved. Proceeds are transferable abroad after payment of taxes, provided the seller acquired the property by paying with foreign exchange; otherwise, proceeds are transferable abroad at the rate of £C 50,000 a year through a blocked account. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Prior approval of the CBC is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are allowed to maintain working balances w i th foreign banks w i th in l im i ts prescribed by the CBC, as well as deposits abroad held as cover for their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers are allowed to grant med ium- and long-term loans in foreign cur- rencies to nonresidents of up to 20% of the ir deposit l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. They are also allowed to grant loans and credits to offshore companies registered in Cyprus of up to 10% of the ir deposit l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 CYPRUS Lending locally in foreign exchange In addition, authorized dealers are allowed to lend Cyprus pounds up to a maximum of £C 3,000 to nonresident ind iv idua ls temporarily living in Cyprus. Authorized dealers may grant short-term credit facilities in foreign currency (e.g., dis- counting bills of exchange) to residents without reference to the CBC. For other lending to residents in foreign currency, prior approval of the CBC is required. Such approval is usually granted for the following purposes: to finance transit trade, to provide working capital for resident oil companies or for industries operating in the industrial free zone, to meet the financial needs of Cyprus Airways, and to finance other desirable productive projects. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies (held either by non- residents or by residents) are different from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements Yes. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors L iqu id assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 60% of deposit liabilities in foreign currencies must be maintained. For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed l iqu id i ty ratio since January 1, 1996. However, the l iqu id i ty positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for prudential purposes. Accounts in Cyprus pounds are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 9%, whereas ac- counts in foreign currencies are not subject to interest rate ceilings. Yes. There are prescribed assets that may be held with respect to accounts in foreign curren- cies. Authorized dealers can purchase securities issued abroad, such as securities issued by solvent foreign governments and traded in recognized stock exchanges abroad, within certain limits prescribed by the CBC. The net open/uncovered position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies may not exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base, except with the prior approval of the CBC. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Insurance companies and pub l ic investment companies may invest abroad a maximum of 20% of their portfolio. Other institutional investors are not allowed to invest abroad. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1996 July 5. The prohibition of transactions associated with deliveries of weapons and m i l i- tary equipment to the constituent republics of the former Socialist Republic of Yugo- slavia was terminated in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council decision of June 18, 1996. October 16. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were terminated, but bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen. Imports and import payments January 1. Most quantitative import restrictions were abolished, and the number of commodities for which an import license is required was reduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions CYPRUS 251 March 29. Investment companies admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange were allowed to invest abroad up to 20% of their portfolio. June 18. The rules governing por tfo l io investment in Cyprus by nonresidents were lib- eralized. The l im it on total nonresident Cypriot participation in the issued capital of pub l ic companies (i.e., companies whose shares are admitted to the Cyprus Stock Ex- change) other than banks was abolished. The l im it on total nonresident participation in the issued capital of each such company was increased to a maximum of 49% from 25%, provided each nonresident person's shareholding does not exceed 5% of the com- pany's issued capital. June 18. For pub l ic companies in the banking sector, the l im it on total nonresident par- ticipation was raised to 15% of the company's issued capital from 8%, wh i le the non- resident alien participation w i th in this l im it was raised to 6% from 3%, provided each nonresident person's shareholding does not exceed 0.5% of the company's issued capital. June 18. The CBC authorized pub l ic companies to carry out transactions w i th nonresi- dents w i thout reference to the CBC, subject to the l im i ts described above. The CBC may grant approval for nonresident participation in pub l ic companies over these limits. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments February 11. The requirement of deposits with the CBC for advance import payments was abolished. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January 29. Authorized dealers were empowered to approve, without reference to the CBC, applications by residents for transactions concerning triangular trade, i.e., pay- ments through Cyprus for goods transported from one foreign country to another. Capital transactions March 1. The use of personal international credit cards was expanded so as to cover cash withdrawals up to £C 100 a trip, additional payments for any purpose up to £C 300 a trip, and mail orders of books up to £C 300. January 30. Nonresidents who acquired real estate in Cyprus by paying with foreign exchange were granted the right to transfer abroad in a lump sum the entire proceeds from the sale of such property, after payment of taxes. Previously, they were allowed to transfer abroad up to £C 50,000 or the original acquisition cost paid with foreign ex- change, whatever was higher. The remainder was deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 50,000 a year fo l low ing the year of sale. February 5. The policy was liberalized in regard to direct investments in Cyprus by nonresidents. Under the new policy, adm in is tra t ive procedures have become s imp ler and, in most cases, foreign participation of up to 100% was permitted. Previously 100% of nonresident participation was allowed on ly for the manufac ture of products new to Cyprus or products exclusively for export, as well as selected tourist projects. The list of saturated activities where no foreign participation is allowed was substantially reduced; it includes land development; education; and pub l ic u t i l i ty services that are governed by specific legislation, such as distribution of electricity, telecommunications, etc. In par- ticular, wholesale trade and retail trade are no longer considered saturated sectors. March 3. Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were previously resident in other countries) who decide to emigrate again were granted the right to transfer abroad in a lump sum all the funds they previously imported in Cyprus and converted to local funds, in addition to the emigration allowance granted to any emigrant. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Throughout 1996 and early 1997, the external value of the Czech koruna was deter- mined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark (65%) and the U.S. dollar (35%). The Czech National Bank (CNB) quoted daily buying and selling rates for 23 convertible currencies, the ECU, and the SDR. Commercial banks set their own foreign exchange rates of the Czech koruna against other currencies, which were applied to the transactions with their clients. Since February 28, 1996, the exchange rate of the Czech koruna quoted by the CNB was allowed to fluctuate within band limits of ±7.5% against the central rate. Since May 27, 1997, the external value of the Czech koruna has been determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The CNB manages the rate with a view to maintaining a stable relationship against the deutsche mark. The CNB may intervene in the foreign exchange market and may signal a desired exchange rate band. There is no exchange tax; however, on the occasion of fixing, the CNB collects a fee of 0.25% on its foreign exchange transactions with commercial banks. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority over governmental credits, central and local authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold bu l l ion may, with some exceptions, be traded only with authorized agents (generally banks). Controls on external trade The export and import of gold bu l l ion and/or more than 10 gold coins must be reported. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 253 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting obligations on exports and imports exceeding KC 200,000. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, with some exceptions. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign exchange may be deposited freely and payments may be made in the Czech Republic or abroad without restriction from these accounts. Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts can be made freely. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Foreign invoices may be settled only through bank transfers. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. Yes. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as uranic ore, its concen- trates, coal, natural gas, poisons, military materials, firearms and ammunition, narcotics, and clothing (excluding imports from the EU and EFTA). In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by levies applies to some agricultural products, mineral fuel and oils, iron and steel and their products, and some chemical products. Imports of hard coal, lignite, uran ium ore and its derivatives, and technological compo- nents containing u ran ium are subject to licenses with quotas. All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 45% for industrial goods and up to 233% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Imports from the Slovak Repub l ic are exempt from customs duties under a customs un ion. Imports from developing countries are granted preferences. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 CZECH REPUBLIC State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses Without quotas The Ministry of Defense grants export licenses for armaments. The Ministry of Culture grants export licenses for items of cultural/artistic value. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal market natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materials). For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Remittance of profits and dividends is permitted, once tax obligations have been met. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. The purchase of foreign securities by residents requires a foreign exchange permit granted by foreign exchange authorities, except in the following cases: (1) A purchase w i th in the framework of a direct investment; (2) A purchase from the account of a foreign exchange entity having a banking license with a required scope of activities; (3) A purchase through a foreign exchange entity having a banking license with a re- quired scope of activities; (4) A purchase of publicly tradable foreign bonds denominated in Czech currency issued in the Czech Republic only with a foreign exchange permit; (5) A purchase of employee shares and other financially preferred shares issued by a nonresident, his domestic employees, or the domestic employees of a resident in whose enterprise the issuer has an ownership participation; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 255 (6) A purchase of foreign securities acquired from another resident pursuant to a sepa- rate act. Sale or issue abroad by residents The y ie ld is subject to the transfer obligation. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Act, the regulation includes only those derivatives whose assets are bu i lt up through financial measures in foreign currency, gold, and for- eign securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted if a participant in the transaction is a foreign exchange entity having a banking license with a required scope of activities; otherwise, a CNB foreign exchange permit is required. Financial credits can be extended by residents to nonresidents only based on a foreign exchange permit from the foreign exchange authorities. The fo l low ing operations are exceptions: (1) The credit is extended by a bank having a banking license with a required scope of activities; (2) The extended credit is a direct investment; and (3) The credit is granted between natural persons and is not intended for business activities. A nonresident's obligation can be secured on ly with a foreign exchange perm it from foreign exchange authorities. However, there are exceptions where the guarantee is provided by a foreign exchange entity having a license with a required scope of activities. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Repub l ic can acquire real estate only in those cases specified by the act: (1) By heritage; (2) For the diplomatic representation of a foreign country under the terms of reciprocity; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 CZECH REPUBLIC (3) If it is real estate acquired in an unapportioned co-ownership of a married couple of which only one is a nonresident, or where a nonresident acquires property from a hus- band, wife, parents, or grandparents. (4) Through the exchange of domestic real estate owned by the nonresident for other domestic real estate the usual price of which does not exceed the usual price of the for- mer real estate; (5) If the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned co-ownership of real estate; (6) If the real estate is a construction bu i lt by a nonresident on his or her own land; and (7) Under the terms explicitly stipulated by the Act on Mitigating the Consequences of Some Property Injustice. Sale locally by nonresidents No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending locally in foreign exchange The range is determined by the banking license granted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors The range is determined by the banking license granted. Both as a monetary regulation l im i t ing open short position vis-a-vis nonresidents and as a prudential regulation limiting commercial banks' open positions in foreign currency. Investments in an entity cannot exceed 20% of its equity. L im i ts (min.) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Act on Bonds establishes that the introduction of bonds by residents on the foreign exchange market and by nonresidents on the domestic market is allowed only with a permit from the Ministry of Finance. The Act on Securities establishes that the introduction of foreign securities denominated in koruny on the domestic market is allowed only if these securities are traded on the pub l ic market in the issuer's country. In addition, there are special regulations on acquiring the capital participation of non- residents in selected ins t i tu t ions or economic areas —banking (a CNB permit required), audit institutions (to a maximum of 10%), and the Securities Stock Exchange (to a maximum of 33%). Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements February 28. The foreign exchange band w i th in which the Czech koruna is allowed to fluctuate was widened from ±0.5% to ±7.5% against the central rate. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements May 27. The foreign exchange rate band was canceled and a new exchange arrangement introduced based on a managed floating system aimed at the stability of the Czech koruna against the deutsche mark. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Denmark participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Den- mark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. Denmark maintains exchange restrictions against Iraq in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661, and against Libya in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Yes. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. No. DENMARK E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other country outside the EU that is not a state trading country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other coun- tries of the FSU, and Vietnam. Licenses with quotas They are required for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for ex- ports of waste and scrap of certain metals. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 259 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are prohibited, except in the case of acquisitions by: (1) Persons who have formerly been residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU nationals working in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) Non-EU nationals who either are in possession of a valid residence permit or are entitled to stay in Denmark without such a permit for residential or active business purposes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Currency The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The Djibouti franc is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1. The official buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI Nonresident Accounts 261 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax, at rates ranging from 3% to 40%. Cer- tain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petro- leum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax of various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported m i lk products and f ru it juice. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 DJIBOUTI Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements Yes. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a matching requirement with respect to both the amount of transaction and the intervention currency, and also with respect to maturities and interest rates. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. As a member of the CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Dominica is a member of the OECS. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies w i th in specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. International security restrictions Trade with Iraq is proh ib i ted, In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payment arrears Official Private n.a. Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quantities of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the MOF. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 DOMINICA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of Eastern Caribbean banknotes and coins (other than numismatic coins) outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. These accounts are normally confined to major exporters, and can only be credited with foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted; prior approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Financing requirements for imports No. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of documentary evidence of purchase. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures All imports from Iraq are prohibited, and all imports from the member countries of the former CMEA require a license. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of specified goods originating outside the OECS, Belize, and CARICOM re- quire a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of CARICOM (Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. There are certain quantitative restrictions on imports of beverages, flour, and margarine; quotas are allocated to traditional importers based on their historical market shares. Dominica applies the CET of CARICOM. Most rates are ad valorem ranging from zero to 45%. Lower rates apply to machinery (zero to 15%) and some essential foods tuffs (10% to 15%), wh i le higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1% customs service charge. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 265 State import monopoly Imports of sugar and rice are conducted by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Yes. Banana exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between $0.55 and $0.60 a pound; if the export price ex- ceeds $0.60 a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. In January 1996 commer- cial banks were authorized to sell foreign currency in amounts up to EC$ 100,000. Amounts over this limit require approval by the MOF, but are generally granted. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 DOMINICA Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. n.a. Amounts in excess of the limits require MOF approval. The limit is EC$3,000 for each tr ip outside the ECCB area, subject to a maximum of 2 trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents. For bona fide business travelers, the l im it is ECS 1,000 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12-month period and subject to presentation of travel documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Amounts in excess of the limits require MOF approval. The limit is ECS 1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to presentation of travel documents and a medical certificate. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Amounts in excess of the l im i ts require MOF approval. The l im it is EC$ 15,000 a student in each academic year for educational expenses, in- cluding accommodation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Earnings of foreign workers may be remitted after settlement of all taxes or other pub l ic liabilities. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Prior approval Amounts in excess of the limits require MOF approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 267 Quantitative limits The limits are EC$2,400 in any 12-month period and EC$3,600 for minors or incapaci- tated dependents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases are normally permitted, Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is requ i red, To residents from nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 DOMINICA Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Inward direct investment Investments require exchange control approval. Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers January 1. Regulations on sales of foreign currency were liberalized and simplified. Commercial banks were allowed to sell up to ECS 100,000 in foreign currency without prior approval of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Repub l ic is the Dominican peso. There are 2 exchange rates: the off ic ial rate and the interbank rate. The official exchange rate is adjusted each week based on the buy ing rate in the inter- bank market, which is determined by supply and demand. The Central Bank (CB) occa- sionally intervenes in the market. A commission of 1.5% is charged on sales of foreign exchange in both the interbank market and the off ic ial market. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the LAIA. All payments must be invoiced in U.S. dollars; oth- erwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Service payments on the external pub l ic debt are executed in the same currency in which the loan is denominated. Yes. The Dominican Republic is a member of LAIA. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements under the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina and Venezuela, wh ich had been suspended, were restarted when credit lines were reestablished on February 15, and October 24, 1996, respectively. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CB. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Some pub l ic sector debt-service payments are in arrears, mostly arising from concilia- tion problems. Some private sector debt-service payments are in arrears, mostly arising from contract negotiations. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Resi- dents (other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users) are not al- lowed to hold or acquire gold in any other form except jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require licenses issued by the CB. Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Foreign currency Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000. On imports Domestic currency Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$ 100 in coins. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are not permitted, but domestic currency can readily be converted to foreign currency in a separate transaction. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The same regulations as for residents apply. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are not permitted, but domestic currency can readily be converted to foreign currency in a separate transaction. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for oil are transacted through the CB at the official exchange rate, and these imports require certification of the use of foreign currency for customs clearance. All other imports are transacted through the interbank market and are only subject to verifi- cation of appropriate documentation, except for the industrial free-trade zones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 271 Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs The list inc ludes ma in ly agr icu l tural products. Imports of refined sugar requ ire licenses. Most tariff rates range from 5% to 35% with certain imported luxury goods subject to an excise tax ranging from 5% to 80%. Duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported w i th in a year. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopo ly The state refinery has exclusive rights to import certain petroleum products for resale. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements A 100% requirement applies to all traditional exports (i.e., cocoa, sugar, coffee, tobacco, and mineral products). Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers with a maturity of more than 30 days from the date of shipment without authorization from the CB. Documentation requirements Export documentation is required. A single export documentation form was introduced on February 3, 1997. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Certain exports are p roh ib i ted for env ironmen tal protection purposes. Licenses are requ ired for preferen t ial sugar exports, par t icu lar ly to the Un i ted States. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval All inv is ib le payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to docu- mentation requirements. However, quantitative limits apply to payments for travel, medical costs, study abroad, and subscriptions and membership fees. There are no con- trols on payments for pensions, gambling and prize earnings, family maintenance and alimony, the use of credit cards abroad, and on remittances of profits and d iv idends. Payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in is tra t ive ex- penses, commissions, interest, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, and subscr ip t ions and membersh ip fees require pr ior approval and are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. Technical assistance fees must be registered w i th the CB. Prior approval of the president of the Republic is required for the h ir ing of Haitian workers to harvest sugarcane. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ irements Yes. Surrender requirements Wh i le most exchange proceeds from inv is ib les may be sold in the in terbank market, certain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls, in terna t ional credit card transactions, jet fuel, foreign embassies' operations, among others) must be surrendered to the CB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments There are controls on external debt contracted by the public sector. There are no restric- tions on capital inf lows to the private sector, but such investments must be registered with the CB. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Prior CB approval is required. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment External debt can be contracted directly by the central government, subject to congres- sional authorization. New loans by other pub l ic entities require authorization from the president of the Republic for their subsequent registration by the Monetary Board. Pri- vate external debt must be registered with the CB, except for foreign exchange advances on fu ture traditional exports, wh ich require approval from the CB. There are no controls on these facilities if guarantees are related to financial credits. Investments must be registered with the CB. Investment in the fo l low ing sectors is pro- hibited: (1) disposal of toxic waste and of dangerous or radioactive substances not pro- duced in the country; (2) activities that affect pub l ic health and the environment; and (3) production of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Certain restrictions apply to purchases of real estate by nonresidents. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements up to an amount equivalent in U.S. dollars to 3 times the bank's capital and reserves, valued at the offi- cial exchange rate. Since January 25, 1996, deposits in national currency are subject to a 20% reserve requirement. Investment regulations Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' foreign exchange positions must be fu l ly covered. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 273 Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements December 20. The official exchange rate (previously fixed) was based on the buy ing rate in the interbank foreign exchange market. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 15. The line of credit with Argentina was reestablished under a reciprocal credit agreement. October 24. The line of credit with Venezuela was reestablished under a reciprocal credit agreement. Capital transactions January 25. Deposits in domestic currency were subjected to a 20% reserve requirement. Exports and export proceeds February 3. A single export documentation form was introduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31, 1970. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran sucre. There are two exchange rates: the free market rate and the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) official exchange rate. All legally permitted foreign exchange transactions, other than those conducted through the CBE, may be conducted in the free market. The market rate of the sucre against the U.S. dollar moves within a band of ±5% around the midpoint preannounced by the CBE; the midpoint depreciates at an annual rate of 21%. The selling rate of the CBE is established weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free market of the previous week. The buying rate of the CBE is set 2% lower than its selling rate. The CBE's selling rate is applied to all external payments of the public sector. No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transac- tions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options and transactions in other fi- nancial derivative instruments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Exchange proceeds from all countries, except for LAIA members, must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the cur- rency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Cuba and Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. There are arrangements with Cuba and Hungary. Yes. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the CBE. Exports must be registered with the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign ex- change proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions re- lated to the exportation for, and production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives may be carried out through the free market or through the CBE. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 275 Private sector foreign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and ex- change houses authorized by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Arrears are maintained with respect to pub l ic and pub l ic ly guaranteed debt-service pay- ments to off ic ial and private creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Advance payment requirements Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. In add i t ion, Petroecuador may, w i thout a license, import supplies, materials, and equ ipment du r ing emergencies. Negative list Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, and parts and pieces are prohibited p r ima r i ly to protect the env ironment and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also proh ib i ted. Certain imports require prior authoriza- tion from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 ECUADOR Import taxes and/or tar iffs Most goods are subject to import tariff rates of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, or 35%. Automo- biles are subject to a 40% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. For certain agricultural goods, tariffs are imposed on goods with prices below a certain lower benchmark and rebates are granted on goods with prices above an upper bench- mark. Under provisions of the WTO, Ecuador has agreed to eliminate price bands of imports of 130 farm products over a 7-year period. All private sector imports are subject to the 10% value-added tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities, but exporters may deduct up to 15% from the ir surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of con- sular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transactions. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilateral payments agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipi- ent country establishing the applicable forms of payment. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the ac- tual cost of leasing foreign ships. M in imum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished products of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the date of shipment. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentat ion requirements Barter transactions require the pr ior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Fisheries, and must be registered with the CBE. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports do not requ ire licenses but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, fish, and semifinished cocoa products are subject to m in imum reference prices. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/.5 a barrel. A further tax of $1.02 a barrel is applied to crude oil exported through the pipeline. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All pub l ic sector payments for invisibles, inc lud ing interest on pub l ic debt, are trans- acted at the central bank rate. Other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 a person. A i r l ine tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10%, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at 8% for departure from Ecuador and 4% for the return trip. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 277 Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on exchange reserves of the CBE and all invisible receipts of the public sector, which are transacted at the central bank rate. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. There are controls on the issue of these instruments. There are controls on the issue of these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the Monetary Board. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the Monetary Board, accompanied by de- tailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to fi- nance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary ag- gregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. New external credits with a maturity of over 1 year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the CBE w i th in 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Lending by residents to nonresidents is also restricted. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Resident accounts August 12. The m idpo int of the exchange rate band was devalued by 8.4% and the an- nual rate of depreciation of the m idpo int rate was increased from 16.5% to 18.5% in local currency terms. May 9. The regulations on commercial banks' correspondent accounts abroad were ap- plied to nonbank financial institutions as well. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 ECUADOR Imports and import payments Capital transactions January 19. Prior authorization from the Ministry of Defense was required for the im- portation of fishing vessels up to 250 metric tons. February 27. In accordance with the law on controlled substances, permission for im- ports of certain drugs and substances was required from the National Council of Con- trolled Substances (Consejo Nacional de Control de Sustancias Estupefacientes y Psicotropicas). March 31. The regulatory framework for the importation of automobiles and automobile parts was liberalized further. May 9. The import nomenclature was amended in order to bring the import tariff schedule into conformity with the Cartagena Agreement. July 2. For environmental reasons, 13 tariff lines were added to the list of products re- quiring prior import authorization and 4 tariff lines were placed on the list of prohibited products. For 63 other tariff lines, the approval process was streamlined by replacing authorization by several ministries with a single interministerial approval process. June 5. The process for approving public sector external loans was amended to exclude prior approval by the Planning Office (CONADE). However, public sector enterprises were required to present to the Monetary Board more stringent financial statements to ensure that the entities can service the debt in a timely manner. The regulatory frame- work for registering private sector capital inflows was widened to include all types of extended credits. Furthermore, private agents were also required to register changes in repayment schedules, including rollovers of credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of'December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple C lass if icat ion Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. In addition to the market exchange rate there is a special rate of LE 1.30 per $1 that is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan, and a rate of LE 0.3913 per $1 that is used for the liquidation of m in imal balances related to terminated bilateral payments agreements. The external value of the Egyptian pound is determined in the foreign exchange market. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) on the ir own account. These transactions may be conducted either in cash or through the ir accounts maintained w i th authorized banks in Egypt. In addition, authorized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transaction except transfers to and from the country, on the accounts of their bank or nonbank customers. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange trans- actions for their own account. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich indemn i ty agreements concerning com- pensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds w i th the CBE. The balances of these accounts are very m in ima l. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements with Sudan are made in accordance with the terms of the bilateral agreement. There is an agreement w i th Sudan. There is an agreement w i th Russia to settle debts between Egypt and the Baltic countries and other countries of the FSU. The agreement, signed on November 10, 1994, has been operative since Ap r il 25, 1995. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 EGYPT Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions w i th in the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payments arrears There are payment arrears with certain non-Paris club creditors. Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or customers' accounts, in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out up to LE 1,000. On imports Domestic currency Persons arriving in Egypt may import up to LE 1,000. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. "D" accounts may be opened in relation with payments agreements (most of these ac- counts were opened a long t ime ago). These accounts are usually credited with transfers under the respective agreement. Balances are used for settlement of local payments al- lowed under the bilateral agreement, inc lud ing for imports from Egypt. Currently, out- standing balances on these accounts are m in ima l. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Balances can be converted through the foreign exchange market. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be cred- ited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these ac- counts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. "Special capital accounts" may be credited with proceeds from sales of real estate owned by foreigners residing abroad. Authorized banks may transfer funds abroad from these accounts up to the amount in foreign exchange previously transferred and surrendered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5% of the value of the property for each year following the first 5 years of ownership un t il ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 281 the property is sold. The remainder may be paid and/or transferred in 5 equal install- ments. As of July 15, 1996, these accounts were canceled and changed into convertible current accounts. "Capital and operations accounts" may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 (July 1989). These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, ad- vance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project require- ment; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accoun ts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures No. No. No. Negative list Most items can be imported freely. Import taxes and/or tar iffs From September 1996, products are classified into 7 groups for customs purposes with tariff rates ranging from 5% to 55% (with several exceptions). Surcharges at rates of 2% and 4% apply to most imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held indefinitely abroad or in local free accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 EGYPT Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment There are no restrictions under the Foreign Exchange Law and Regulations on the issue of securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in securities denominated in for- eign currencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange market could be mediated for transferring proceeds associated with the sale of both Egyptian securities and foreign securities. Derivatives do not exist in the Egyptian market. No restrictions are applied if the maturity of the commercial credits is up to 1 year or if these credits are received by the private sector. With regard to ministries, governmental administrations, pub l ic authorities, and pub l ic sector companies, they are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than a 1-year term. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or projects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. There are no general restrictions, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. Upon the request by foreign investors, and subject to approval of the board of the Gen- eral Investment Authority, repatriation of the invested capital will be within the limits of its value calculated on the basis of the announced exchange rate at the time of liquida- tion or disposition. This should be in 5 equal annual installments, provided that the Authority approves the result of the liquidation. Exceptionally, the invested capital could be transferred in fu l l, if the balance of the foreign currency account held by the investor with one of the authorized bank permits, or if the Authority's board approved making the transfer in fu ll under certain conditions. If the invested capital is provided in kind, it may be repatriated in k ind. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Deposits in foreign currency held by either nationals or foreigners are subject to a 10% requirement (the interest-free reserve ratio requirement of deposits in Egyptian pounds is 15%), which must be deposited with the CBE at LIBOR. Liquid asset requirements The requirement for assets in foreign currency is 25%, while it is 20% with regard to assets in Egyptian pounds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 283 Open foreign exchange position limits The limits are: (1) for each currency (local or foreign): 10% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; (2) for total long or short positions: 20% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; and (3) total for- eign assets to total foreign liabilities, or vice versa, should not exceed 105%. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The sale or issue of securities or collective instrument securities on local markets by nonresidents should be in accordance with Law No. 95 (1992) requiring, inter alia, the preparation of a prospectus to be approved by the Capital Market Authority (CMA) in which case Law No. 95 does not provide any restriction on the transfer abroad of the proceeds associated with these sales or issues. Changes During 1996 Imports and import payments Capital transactions September 30. Import tar iffs and import surcharges were reduced: the max imum tar iff was reduced to 55% from 70%, and all tariff rates above 30% were reduced by 10-15 percentage points. The higher rate of import surcharge was reduced to 4% from 5%. July 15. Restrictions affecting the t im ing of the transfer abroad by nonresidents of the proceeds of sales of Egyptian real estate were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 6, 1946. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran colon. Gold coins in denominations of C 25, C 50, C 100, C 200, and C 2,500 are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating The Central Reserve Bank (CRB) publishes the daily exchange rates, which are applied to its transactions with the public sector, and the calculation of tax obligations. These exchange rates are the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses on the previous working day. Since January 1, 1994, the CRB has intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain the exchange rate at C 8.75 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The CRB administers exchange regulations. All private sector foreign exchange trans- actions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centre de Tramites de Exportaci6n (CENTREX) issues certificates of origin and health when for- eign importers require them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 285 Held domestically Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make pay- ments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are not restricted, but the commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the CRB on the use of such accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, propane and butane gas, cloth and ju te sacks, sugar, and molasses. Most import tariffs range up to 20%, although some products, such as automobiles, alcoholic beverages, textiles, and luxury goods, are subject to an import tariff of 30%. There are no tariffs on capital goods and selected inputs. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive duty drawbacks on imported raw materials equivalent to 6% of f.o.b. value of exports. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. All exports must be registered, with the exception of exports amounting to less than $5,000, unless the product specifications call for such certification. Export permits, issued by the Ministry of Finance, are required for diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 Without quotas Export taxes EL SALVADOR Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. No. Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than 1 year must be registered with the Ministry of the Economy but are not restricted. Certain m in imum capital requirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resident shareholders. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. Borrowing abroad External borrowing by financial institutions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10%. The CBS started remunerating reserves on short-term financial system external borrow- ing on November 1, 1996. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks has been gradually re- duced to 20% of capital on November 1, 1996, and then to 10% on May 1, 1997. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Capital transactions November 1. The CBS started remunerating reserves held on short-term financial system external borrowing. Changes During 1996 Capital transactions Changes During 1997 April 1. Reserve requirements on all deposits, including those in foreign exchange, and on short-term financial system external borrowing may be partially held in authorized central bank securities. May 1. The limit on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks was reduced to 10%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA franc, issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5% is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly-issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the government and its agencies for off ic ial missions, and payments of insurance prem iums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts. n.a. An Operations Account is maintained at the French Treasury. n.a. n.a. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (DNCC) of the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF). Exchange transactions relating to all coun- tries must be effected th rough authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus try, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines. Export licenses are issued by the MOF. Payment arrears Off ic ial Yes. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 Private EQUATORIAL GUINEA n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exporta- tion or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Directorate of Mines and the MOF; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of payment at their disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importa- tion of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident Accounts n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in French francs. Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts Because the BEAC suspended in 1993 the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Gu inea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 289 Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions of which the value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents invo lv ing goods for use out- side Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to licensing, but licenses are is- sued freely. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Equatorial Guinea applies the common duty rates of the UDEAC on imports from non- members (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxury goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from other UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Repatriation requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made w i th in 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. n.a. n.a. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an author- ized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the ap- propriate documents. Preshipment inspection Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Quantitative limits Profit/dividends Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the MOF. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, admin- istrative expenses, commissions, travel expenses, medical treatment, study abroad, sub- scriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, gambling and prizes earnings, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, interest, the remittances of profits and dividends, and the use of credit cards abroad are subject to prior approval, indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Except in the case of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, payments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permit- ted; larger amounts may be authorized by the DNCC. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to 50% of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every 2 years. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to coun- tries outside the franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, up to CFAF 5 m i l l ion a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Re turn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i th in 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destina- tion, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of depar- ture. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that it has been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Transfers are permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as jus t if ica t ion of expenses, provided that transfers take place w i th in 3 months of the pay period concerned. The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is l im i ted to the ceilings for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in 1 month of the due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 291 Surrender requirements Proceeds earned in countries outside the franc zone must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of collection if received in foreign currency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Status under IMF Art ic les of Agreement June 1. Equatorial Guinea accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The Ethiopian birr is the provisional legal tender. The official exchange rate is the marginal auction rate that applies to transactions be- tween Eritrea and Ethiopia concerning oil refinery services, all aid-funded imports, and most service transactions. There is also a more depreciated preferential exchange rate that is used for most private imports and exports and the conversion of foreign exchange remittances by Eritreans l iv ing abroad. The official exchange rate of Eritrea is the marginal auction exchange rate of E th iop ia's birr, determined in the weekly foreign exchange auction conducted by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). The preferential rate is fixed by the authorities at Br 7.20 to the U.S. dollar. The NBE prescribes a commission of 0.25% for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.75% for sales of foreign exchange, except for banknote transactions. The authorized dealers are permitted, but not required, to levy a service charge of up to 0.25% for buy- ing and 0.75% for se l l ing for the ir own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements All transactions with Ethiopia, except those related to the imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab and the purchase of certain Ethiopian exports, are settled in Ethiopian birr. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The NBE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers and issues dealers' licenses. It may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. The Exchange Control Department of the NBE issues permits only for those imports that require foreign exchange from the banking system. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry regulates foreign investments. The As- mara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Authorization from the Ministry of Energy, Mines, and Water Resources is required for ownership or possession of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewelry without restrictions. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 293 Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency holdings upon departure. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Currently, Eritrea does not have its own national currency. Travelers are allowed to reconvert their balances in Ethiopian birr into foreign curren- cies upon departure. Currently, Eritrea does not have its own national currency. Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency ho ld ings upon entry into Eritrea. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Only investors and ind iv idua ls earning foreign exchange in connection with foreign trade are allowed to open accounts. Yes. Only investors and ind iv idua ls earning foreign exchange in connection with foreign trade are allowed to open accounts. These accounts are restricted to resident banks. Nonbank residents may not open ac- counts abroad, except if specifically authorized by the NBE. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Eritreans working temporarily abroad may be permitted to maintain nonresi- dent U.S. dollar accounts in Eritrea. NBE approval is required. Available only to members of the diplomatic community, welfare organizations, non- governmental organizations and their personnel, as well as jo int ventures and other business firms that invest their capital, who l ly or partially, in foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Most imports financed with off ic ial foreign exchange are effected under letters of credit (LCs) or on a cash-against-documents basis. Supp l iers' credits must be registered w i th the NBE. Advance import deposits Only for LC type of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Suppliers' credits must be registered w i th the NBE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 ERITREA Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import payments made through the banking system require a permit issued by the NBE upon presentation of pro forma invoices providing information as to type, quantity, un it price, and freight cost (where applicable). Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs All importers must have a valid trade license issued by the National Licensing Office. These licenses must be renewed each year at a fee of Br 200. Imports of cars and other motor vehicles require prior permission from the Ministry of Transportation. Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 2% is collected on imports that do not require official foreign ex- change and are not aid funded (franco valuta imports). State import monopoly The company that produces tobacco and matches holds the monopoly over the imports of these products. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of shipment; where jus t if ied, this deadline can be extended by another 90 days. No. Exports may be made under LCs, on an advance payment basis, or on a consignment basis. All exports require documentation by the NBE. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the Ministry of Marine Resources. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. The annual licensing fee is Br 200. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval There are no controls on foreign workers' wages, pensions, or family maintenance and alimony. Payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administra- tive expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, and interest require prior approval. For investments certified under the Investment Proclamation No. 59 (1994), foreign investors may freely remit proceeds received from the liquidation of investment and/or expansion, and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares. Petroleum contrac- tors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum op- erations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. For business trips, $250 a person a day for up to 30 days a trip. Exporters may use freely their retention balances for travel purposes. For personal travel, the allowance is $100 a person (adult or minor) a trip. Eritrean nationals can purchase air travel tickets in local and foreign currency. Recommendation of the Medical Board of the Ministry of Health is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval ERITREA 295 Up to $10,000 for treatment abroad, other than in Ethiopia. The limit may be exceeded in special circumstances. Approval is granted for higher education expenses only. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No. No. No. Yes. n.a. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities with the approval of the NBE. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Foreign borrowing by residents must be registered with the NBE. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad with the approval of the NBE. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. n.a. Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and wholesale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 ERITREA the latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved investments and their subsequent expansion enjoy exemption from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions No. Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to prior approval of the NBE. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and import payments March 30. The NBE ceased to provide foreign exchange for imports of certain goods. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Estonia is the kroon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Pegged The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the deutsche mark at the rate of EEK 8 per DM 1. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) exchanges kroon banknotes and reserve deposits of commercial banks with the BOE into deutsche mark and vice versa at that exchange rate. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely handled by commercial banks that can freely quote their own exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU can be effected through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the BOE with the respective central banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may in most cases be used freely by their holders to purchase either goods or services in the country concerned. In operating these accounts, the BOE acts as an intermediary only and does not convert any balances to krooni. Kroon balances held by the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU on their correspondent accounts are fu l ly convertible without delay. These agreements also allow for separate decentralized pay- ment arrangements between commercial banks in the respective countries and do not provide for swing credits or overdraft facilities. Commercial banks in Estonia are per- mitted and encouraged to open their own correspondent accounts with commercial banks in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. At the beg inn ing of 1996, Estonia had bilateral agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Repub l ic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Some accounts with a number of countries of the FSU are inoperative. n.a. n.a. n.a. The BOE issues and enforces foreign exchange regulations. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) controls and monitors import and exports, and licenses gold trading. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 ESTONIA International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Some external debt issues with Russia and the other countries of the FSU are not yet settled. Official All external debt with Russia is official. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Domestic trade in gold is subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. trade Controls on external trade International trade in gold is subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency There is a l im it on exports of the 1-kroon coin of 20 a person. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list No. No. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 299 Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties are levied on fur, fur goods, launches, yachts, and motorized water skis. Imports are also subject to a state duty and a value-added tax of 18%, which is also lev- ied on domestically produced goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Licenses are required for metals, spirits, tobacco and tobacco goods, drugs, cars, weap- ons, ammunition, explosives, fuel, motor oil, and lottery tickets. The MOF collects a specific fee in line with WTO principles to cover the cost of admin- istrative processing, and an export duty of 100% is levied on items of cultural value. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on direct investment No. Capital Transactions Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 6. The exportation of the 1-kroon coin was limited to 20 a person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le XIV Yes. Currency The currency of E th iop ia is the Ethiopian birr. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass i f ica t ion Independent floating Exchange tax The official exchange rate of the birr against the U.S. dollar is the marginal rate (i.e., the lowest successful bid) determined in weekly auctions for announced quantities of for- eign exchange, as determined by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). Authorized dealers must observe a prescribed commission of 0.5% on buy ing and 1.5% on selling, wh ich accrues to the NBE, and they may levy service charges of up to 0.25% on buy ing and 0.75% on selling for their own accounts. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with Eritrea, except those related to imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab, Eritrea, are made in birr. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through authorized dealers under the control of the NBE. The Exchange Controller of the NBE issues exchange licenses for all exports and payments abroad and issues permits for all shipments. The Ministry of Trade formulates external trade policy. Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownership of personal jewelry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or gold or p la t inum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Develop- ment Corporation to the NBE. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may take out Br 10 in Ethiopian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign exchange. Reconversion of birr to foreign exchange must be supported by documentary evidence of p r ior exchange of foreign currency. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 301 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Travelers must declare any foreign currency in their possession when entering Ethiopia. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Exporters and recipients of remittances are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts but cannot use the funds to acquire shares, stocks, bonds, or any other security denominated in foreign exchange without the prior approval of the NBE. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but exporters must have the NBE's approval. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval from the Exchange Control Department of the NBE is required to open these accounts. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign exchange. Balances may be transferred freely abroad, and transfers between nonresident accounts do not requ i re prior approval. Members of the d ip loma t ic commun i ty must use transferable or non- transferable birr accounts for payment of local expenses. Jo int ventures are permitted to open foreign currency accounts or transferable or nontransferable b irr accounts to pur- chase raw materials, equipment, and spare parts not available in Ethiopia. Once docu- mentary evidence of the entry of the goods purchased with such funds is submitted to the Exchange Control Department, funds from these accounts may be freed. E th iop ian nonresidents can ma in ta in interest-bearing accounts, but non-Ethiopians may ho ld only current accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Imports of goods on the negative list (i.e., used clothing) are ine l ig ib le for the foreign exchange auctions. Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equ ipmen t. Payments by letter of credit (LC), ma il transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash-against-documents at sight are normally accepted, but the NBE must be consulted regarding imports on a cash-against- documents basis. If the importer is successful, an LC is opened by the NBE, wh i le foreign exchange is freed once the imports have arrived. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 ETHIOPIA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Final invoices separately showing f.o.b. cost and freight charges and nonnegotiable bills of lading. Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid importer's license is pre- sented. Applications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by information on costs and payment terms, and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. n.a. n.a. n.a. Includes used clothing and items restricted for reasons of health and security. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Ninety percent of the net proceeds from exports must be surrendered in freely converti- ble currencies or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes All exports are licensed through the Exchange Controller, and all shipments require a permit from that office; some commodities also require approval from specific govern- ment bodies. Exports of raw hides and skins are regulated or prohibited until the needs of local facto- ries are met. The exportation of coffee is subject to a coffee export duty at the rate of Br 15 a quintal, a coffee export cess at the rate of Br 5 a quintal, and a coffee surtax. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les require exchange licenses.' Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Administrative expenses Prior approval Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies purchased before April 1962. Yes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 303 Commissions Interest payments Profit/dividends n.a. n.a. After paying local taxes, foreign companies may rem it d iv idends on the ir invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Yes. Persons traveling abroad for business purposes related to imports or exports are granted foreign exchange up to $10,000 a year. For other business travel, the l im i ts for tourism are applied. Tourists 18 years or older are allowed up to $300 a tr ip. For government travel, the allowance rates vary by country and foreign currency based on the cost of l iv ing. Verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health is required, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The l im it is $2,000 a student, a year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remit- tance facilities may, however, remit up to 30% of their net earnings for the education of the ir ch i ldren. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Foreign contractual employees can take out foreign exchange du r ing the terms of the ir service and upon final departure, not to exceed the ir earnings. However, the va lue of fee accommodation gratuity, accumulated leave pay, and similar benefits may not be in- cluded for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out the same amount on f inal departure, but not more than Br 20,000 in any 1 year. Foreign employees of foreign embassies, legations, consulates, and international organi- zations whose salaries are fu l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside Ethiopia can take out and/or transfer their net earnings to the extent of the balance in their nonresident foreign currency account, nonresident transferable birr account, and/or nontransferable birr accounts. Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 ETHIOPIA Surrender requirements Ninety percent of proceeds must be surrendered, of which 40% should be surrendered at negotiable rates w i th in 21 days of receipt. Controls on capital and money mar- ket ins trumen ts On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions n.a. n.a. Banks may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currencies without the per- mission of th eNBE. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The NBE is the only issuer of treasury b i l ls. Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorized banks may place their funds abroad freely, except on fixed-term deposits. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment There is no market in these instruments. n.a. Yes. n.a. Banks need prior approval from the NBE to overdraw their accounts with foreign corre- spondents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency. These instruments are not available. Outward direct investment n.a. Inward direct investment Foreign investors are permitted to hold a majority share in a jo int venture, except in the fo l low ing sectors: pub l ic utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, trans- port, and trade in selected products deemed essential to the economy by law. All applications for jo int ventures must be approved by the Investment Office; a m in imum of 25% of share capital must be paid before registration. Investments were allowed in large-scale engineering and metallurgical industries, capital and technology-intensive large-scale pharmaceutical and fertilizer production, and in activities that supply strate- gic raw materials to the chemical industry, as well as in real estate developments and smaller hotels. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to 5 years for new projects and for up to 3 years for ma jor extensions to existing projects. Imports of in- vestment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment ETHIOPIA 305 Authorization of the Exchange Controller is required for repatriation of capital, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes the evi- dence of inflows that is required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, for- eign businessmen with nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any 1 calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to jo int ventures estab- lished under Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 (of July 5, 1989) and invest- ments made under Proclamation No. 15/1992 (of May 25, 1992). Transfers by emigrants who have operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any 1 calendar year. Proceeds from the liquidation of a jo int venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) may be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A jo int ven- ture may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royal- ties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents An investment license is required for these purchases. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks may not borrow from, or enter into a guarantee agreement w i th banks abroad, unless authorized by the NBE. Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic banks may grant personal loans to staff members of international institutions. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Resident accounts July 27. The frequency of foreign exchange auctions was increased to weekly trading from biweekly trading. October 1. Resident foreign exchange accounts were permitted for recipients of export earnings and remittances. Imports and import payments July 20. The franco valuta mechanism was phased out. July 20. The negative list was narrowed to used clothing and items restricted for health and security reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 ETHIOPIA Exports and export proceeds Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions July 27. The 25% foreign exchange cover requirement for the foreign exchange auction was eliminated. October 1. The surrender requirement was reduced to 90% from 100%; 50% to be sur- rendered to the NBE and 40% to the foreign exchange market within 3 weeks. The re- maining 10% may be held in foreign exchange deposits. October 1. The surrender requirement was reduced to 90% from 100%; 50% to be sur- rendered to the NBE and 40% to the foreign exchange market within 3 weeks. The re- maining 10% may be held in foreign exchange deposits. June 18. Joint ventures of foreign investments with Ethiopian private partners was al- lowed in large-scale engineering and metallurgical industries, capital- and technology- intensive large-scale pharmaceutical and fertilizer production, and in activities that sup- ply strategic raw materials to the chemical industry. Foreign direct investment was al- lowed in real estate developments and smaller hotels. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4, 1972. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of F i ji is the F i ji dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the F i ji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies, comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies inc luded in the basket. No. No. Forward exchange fac i l i t ies are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for periods of up to 6 months for exports and 9 months for imports, up to a ratio of their capital. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Although no specific requirements exist, settlements must be made in convertible cur- rencies acceptable to either country as directed by the Exchange Control Act. Exchange control is administered by the RBF acting as agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and other current payments and transfers up to specified l im i ts or f u ll amounts in some cases. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins, but not gold bu l l ion. The exportation of gold coins, except num isma t ic coins and collectors' pieces, requires specific perm iss ion from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nom ic P lann ing; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bu l l ion are exempt from fiscal duty but are sub ject to a 10% value-added tax (VAT). Gold jewe lry is also exempt from fiscal du ty but subject to a 10% VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewe lry sent by foreign manufacturers re- qu i re import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if the ir value exceeds F$ 1,000. Exports of gold bu l l ion are subject to an export duty of 3%. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 FIJI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports are allowed up to F$500 a trip. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the time of arrival. Travelers may bring in freely Fijian banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration off ic ia ls on arrival. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Resident Accounts E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Yes. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited freely w i th the account holders' salaries (net of tax), w i th interest payable on the account, and with payments from other external accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, with payments from other external accounts, with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with F i ji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country dur ing a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which ei- ther general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in F i j i, and purchases of foreign exchange. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requ irements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requ iremen ts Advance payment requ iremen ts Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. Authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports of up to F$ 100,000 an application w i thout specific approval from the RBF if such payments are required by the supp l ie r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 309 Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Imports of frozen chicken and lubrication oil products in any form from the United States require a specific import license. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is re- sponsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold and timber. Import licenses and other nontariff measures for gold are issued by the Ministry of Fi- nance and Economic Planning; for timber, by the Ministry of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national cooperative societies under a jo int arrange- ment with 6 other Pacific Island countries. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expiration date requirements. All agricultural and forestry products are subject to quarantine clearance. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for security, health, or pub l ic policy reasons. Licenses with quotas Import licenses for frozen chicken from the United States are issued on a quota basis. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tariffs range from 5% to 22.5%. A 10% VAT is also levied. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly n.a. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports w i th in 6 months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than 6 months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Exporters may retain, w i th prior approval of the RBF, up to 20% of export proceeds in foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or a foreign bank abroad; the rate of retention from each export receipt is not subject to control. Export licenses are issued by various government departments and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar, gold, and silver. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 FIJI Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Controls are mostly in the form of documentation requirements. Most payments have been fu l ly delegated to authorized banks without any restrictions or limits. All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Quantitative limits The l im it is F$ 100,000 an application. Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval These payments may be effected provided that prior specific approval for the loan was granted by the RBF. Emigrants are allowed to transfer, after 1 year abroad, the fu ll amount of the current year's dividends or profits earned on assets left in Fiji. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain permission from the RBF to transfer divi- dends abroad. Under the present policy, remittance of the current year's profits and 4 years' retained earnings that have not previously been remitted is allowed. Yes. Approval is required for amounts above F$8,000 a trip. Yes. No approval is required, provided that payment is made directly to the institution. Foreign exchange provided is restricted to amounts due. Approval is required for l iv ing allowances above F$20,000 a beneficiary, a year, in addition to tuition fees paid directly to the institution. Quantitative limits Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Approval is required for payments above F$ 15,000 an applicant. Approval is required for payments above F$200,000. Approval is required for payments above F$ 100,000. Prior approval Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above F$ 15,000 a year. G ift payments are limited to F$2,500 an applicant a year. Yes. The use of credit cards for travel-related expenses is not restricted, except for a F$5,000 l im it on the ir use for shopping on each trip; in addition, F$500 a month may be with- drawn in cash. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 3 11 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Residents are required to sell all their foreign currency receipts to an authorized dealer w i th in 1 month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered semiannually unless approval for reinvestment abroad has been granted by the RBF. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Prior approval by the RBF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents must obtain prior permission from the RBF to borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," wh ich guarantees the right to repatriate d iv idends and capital. Requires specific permission from the RBF, which is readily granted with evidence that the investment funds originated offshore. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in f u ll the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on investments of up to F$ 15 m i l l i on a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 FIJI Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval by the Ministry of Land is required for purchases of state-owned property. Settlements require RBF approval to ensure proceeds are received in Fiji and that funds are sourced from abroad. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on settlements are to safeguard local interest, before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers may lend up to F$200,000 to a newly established company or a branch of a company in F i ji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji and up to F$30,000 to individual nonresident cus- tomers; ind iv idual nonresident borrowers must repay their loans before leaving Fiji. Any amounts in excess of these limits require prior approval from the RBF. Lending locally in foreign exchange The banks and nonbank financial institutions may not lend foreign currency to any resi- dent of Fiji without the specific permission of the RBF. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regu la t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. n.a. n.a. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain specific net open positions based on their actual capital holdings in F i j i. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Payments for inv i s ib le transact ions and current transfers January 1. Current l im i ts on remittances for commissions, subscriptions and member- ship fees, and fam i ly maintenance; on payments for travel and studies abroad; and on the use of credit cards abroad were adopted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Currency The currency of Finland is the markka (100 penni = Fmk 1). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Finland jo ined the ERM of the EMS on October 14, 1996. In accordance with this mechanism, Finland maintains spot exchange rates between the markka and the curren- cies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. Import licensing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export licensing relating to international export control regimes is adminis- tered by the trade department/foreign trade division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Finland maintains exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions against Iraq and Libya. Exchange restrictions on the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and certain areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were terminated in October 1996, w i th the exception of certain claims. A UN Security Council resolution on food for oil (Iraq) was implemented in December 1996. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 314 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. Yes. The following products are subject to quantitative import restrictions and require an import license when imported into the EU: certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements with Russia and Ukraine, certain steel products subject to autonomous community quotas for Kazakhstan, specific textile products subject to bilateral agree- ments with third countries, particular third-coqntry textile products subject to autono- mous community quotas, and certain Chinese industrial products subject to autonomous community quotas. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Defense. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 315 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, wh ich may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. No. No. Acquisition of shares g iv ing at least one-third of the voting rights in a F inn ish defense enterprise to a single foreign owner requires prior confirmation by the Ministry of De- fense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of the pub l ic defense is jeopardized. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate (1) for recreational purposes or secondary residences by nonresidents who have not previously been residents of F in land for at least 5 years; and (2) in the Aaland Islands. Prudential regulation harmonized with EU directives is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities Yes. laws Exchange arrangements October 14. Finland joined the ERM of the EMS. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of France is the French franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market France participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other par- ticipants w i th in margins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the cur- rency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and the two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equato- rial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale, issued by the BEAC). These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F 0.055 and CFPF 1 per F 0.01, respectively. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which ho lds an Op- erations Account w i th the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc by a fixed par- ity of FC 1 to F 0.0133. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks estab- lished abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, in- c lud ing nonenterprise individuals, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of the Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 317 has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on payments have been imposed on Iraq in accordance with the UN Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 986 (1995). Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000 must be declared to customs upon arrival or departure. At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. A customs declaration is required. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Imports of products of the ECSC require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Im- ports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP of the EU are subject to variable import levies that have replaced previous barriers. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Quantitative restrictions consist of EU-wide and national re- strictions. The former inc lude textile and apparel limits under the MFA and voluntary export restraints. National measures are authorized under Article 115 of the EU Treaty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 FRANCE Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements For some commodities, such as petroleum and petroleum products, global quotas are allocated annually. In other cases, quotas are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that originate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Duties are collected at the time of entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the prod- ucts and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an antidumping levy can be added. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for works of art, which are subject to the value-added tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. The French capital market is based on the principle of freedom of access and operation. The only restrictions apply to the issuance of certifi- cates of deposit by nonresident banks and to Eurofranc issues, which are subject to rules set by the Eurofranc Committee that establishes that the majority of Eurofranc issues must be sold abroad. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 319 Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can only issue commercial papers. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment The restriction does not apply to collective investment securities that are of EU origin and comply with EC Directive 85/61 I/EC. French mutual funds can acquire securities only in the EU-regulated market or in mar- kets admitted by the Securities Exchange Commission. No. No. Direct investments are defined as those where foreign investors hold more than one- third of the capital. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each ind iv idual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a com- pany is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and li- censes, and commercial contracts. Inward direct investment Investments are prohibited in areas pertaining to pub l ic order and defense. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely trans- ferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry w i th in 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior applica- tion, provided that the corresponding funds had been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. No. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition European insurance companies are required to cover their technical reserves with assets expressed in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Gabon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain for- eign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and inc lude a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.25% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (MOFBP) because of the nature of their activities. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover the ir position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The Directorate of Financial Institutions of the MOFBP supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the MOFBP, which has partly delegated approval authority to the authorized banks for current payments and to the BEAC for issues related to the external position of the banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Payment arrears No. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts GABON 321 Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the MOFBP. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the Societ^ gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. Imports of gold ex- empted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents can export from one BEAC country to another, but exports of banknotes outside the BEAC zone are prohibited. Residents traveling outside the BEAC zone are subject to the various limits imposed on foreign exchange allowances allocated for each trip, depending on the nature of the travel. Nonresident travelers may take with them foreign currency or other foreign means of payment equivalent to the max imum amount declared upon entry into the BEAC zone. Above this ceiling or in the absence of declaration, nonresidents must provide supporting documents explaining the origin of such amounts. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents can import into one BEAC country from another, but imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC zone, both by residents and nonresidents, are prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were applied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents' authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 GABON banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign ac- counts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an author- ized bank. n.a. n.a. Import declarations to or licenses approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the MOFBP (Directorate of Financial Institutions) entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance compa- nies in Gabon. Negative list Open general licenses Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Except for sugar, imports from all countries are free and do not require licenses. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Licenses with quotas Importation of sugar is subject to quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The common duty rates of the UDEAC member countries of 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for con- sumer goods are applied. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to countries outside the BEAC zone must be collected and repa- triated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the contract, unless a special waiver is granted by the MOFBP. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Ac- count country must be surrendered within 1 month of collection. n.a. n.a. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 323 Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports are subject to declaration to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. n.a. n.a. Export taxes are levied on m in ing products (0.5%) and forest products (5% to 11%). Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MOFBP. For many types of payments, the mon i tor ing function of the MOFBP has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Adm in i- stration. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. There are no con- trols on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, and consulting and legal fees, or on interest payments and remittances of profits and dividends. Residents traveling to other countries of the franc zone may obtain an un l im i ted alloca- tion in French francs. W i th in the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes can be exported without limits. Residents traveling outside the BEAC zone are allowed to take out foreign banknotes and other means of payment up to a limit of CFAF 2 million and CFAF 5 m i l l ion for tourism and business purposes, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits Persons traveling to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons may obtain an exchange allocation of up to CFAF 2,500,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Students or trainees leaving Gabon for the first time or re turn ing to the ir normal place of study in countries outside the BEAC zone may obtain an exchange allowance equivalent to CFAF 1 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer 50% of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in 3 months of the pay period concerned. Yes. The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MOFBP, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 GABON Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in for- eign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within 8 days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control, except for the sale or introduction of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and require the approval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Gabon. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization from the MOFBP. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has prev ious ly been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment GABON 325 Lending by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MOFBP. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions w i th in 20 days of the op- eration except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Borrowing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MOFBP. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one bor- rower. However, for the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institu- tions w i th in 20 days of the operation unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 m i l l ion or less. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Investments, inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Gabon, must be declared to the MOFBP unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resu l t ing from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits. Investments must be declared to the MOFBP w i th in 20 days of the operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed prof- its; w i th in 2 months of receipt of the declaration, the MOFBP may request the post- ponement of the project. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10% of the com- pany's capital. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Gabon must be declared to the MOFBP w i th in 20 days of the operation unless the operation invo lves the re l inqu i sh ing of a shareholding that had prev ious ly been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are not permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Status under IMF Art ic les of Agreement June 1. Gabon accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Articles of Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian dalasi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independent floating The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. Commer- cial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. During this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate for customs valuation purposes for the following week. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Settlements with the BCEAO, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Maurita- nia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WAEMU. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. n.a. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Nonresident Accounts 327 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Accounts denominated in dalasis are designated external accounts, and may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Designated external accounts may be credited with payments from residents of other countries, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the bank- ing system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for purchases of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures No. No. No. No. Negative list Imports of certain goods are proh ib i ted for social, health, or security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Customs duty rates range from 4% to 60% w i th a few goods subject to higher rates. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt from this tax. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 THE GAMBIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no capital markets or stock exchange markets in The Gambia. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are allowed if residents have the means to conduct them. On money market instruments There is no market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations These instruments do not exist. Commercial banks may provide overdraft facilities to members of diplomatic and inter- national missions in The Gambia. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Very few big investors enjoy these facilities. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Inward transfers for purposes of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG for statistical purposes. Transfers of proceeds may be made after all taxes are paid. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Maintenance of accounts abroad The Social Security and Finance Holding Company is not allowed to maintain these accounts. Investment regulations Inward investors are expected to bring in their own foreign funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 329 Open foreign exchange position limits The limits set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Currency The currency of Georgia is the lari. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Between January and August 1996, the official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble were based on the rates at the fixing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) the previous Friday. Since August 12, 1996, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined daily. The official rates for other curren- cies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and enterprises and other legal entities. The National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and the major commercial banks participate in the f ix ing sessions at the TICEX for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements for transactions between the governments of Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, and Uzbekistan can be made through a system of correspondent accounts in convertible currency. Correspondent accounts with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU are either inoperative or no longer exist. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The NBG is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, which are for- mulated in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The NBG has the author- ity to issue general foreign exchange licenses to banks that permit them to engage in foreign exchange transactions with residents and nonresidents and to open correspon- dent accounts with banks outside Georgia. The NBG also has the authority to issue in- ternal licenses to banks that permit them to engage in the same range of foreign exchange transactions as general license holders, except the opening of correspondent accounts with banks abroad. All transfers of foreign exchange by holders of internal licenses must be carried out through correspondent accounts held either with the NBG or with a bank that holds a general license. The NBG also has the authority to issue licenses for the establishment of exchange bureaus to engage in cash transactions. International security restrictions No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) A license is required to trade in gold. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 331 Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Since Ju ly 15, 1996, up to 4 units of each currency denomination may be tak ;en out without permission. The exportation of foreign currency notes by nonresidents is permitted up to the amount originally imported. Residents may export up to the equivalent of $500 without restric- t ion. Amounts in excess of $500 are subject to a "special fee" ranging from 2% for amounts up to the equivalent of $10,000 to 3% for amounts above $10,000. On imports A declaration is required. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. There are no restrictions on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are requ ired for imports of weapons, narcotics, indus tr ial equ ipmen t, pharma- ceuticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 GEORGIA Import taxes and/or tar iffs A customs duty of 12% is levied on most non-CIS imports as well as imports of fue ls from CIS countries; from January 1, 1997, certain goods are subject to a 5% customs duty, inc lud ing specific capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials. All imports are subject to a 0.2% customs processing fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. The export contract registration requirement applicable to exports of steel and metals, manganese and copper concentrates, w ine and liquor, and mineral water was abolished in December 1996. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; pine seeds; num isma t ic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleontological, archeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for production of medicine. Exports of scrap metal are prohibited. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. All exports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to indicative limits/bona fide tests. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 333 Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration requirements for monitoring purposes. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. A new Foreign Investment Law became effective on December 6, 1996. Under th is law, the taxation and promotion of investment activities by joint ventures and foreign enter- prises are regulated by the current tax legislation. Foreign investment enterprises that received licenses before this law came into effect w i ll continue to enjoy all r igh ts and benefits granted under the previous law for a period of 5 years from the date of issuance of those licenses. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement December 20. Georgia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Exchange arrangements August 12. The off ic ial exchange rate is determined at daily auctions. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 15. Exportation of lari banknotes was limited to 4 units of each currency denom i- nation, unless permission is obtained. Exports and export proceeds December 6. The export contract registration requirement was abolished. Capital transactions December 6. A new Foreign Investment Law became effective. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. The customs duty applied to barter operations was un i f ied w i th the one ap- p l ied to certain nonbarter operations at 12%. In addition, a 5% customs duty on imports of certain capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Germany is the deutsche mark (DM). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in the ERM of the EMS within margins of ±15%, except for the Netherlands guilders for which the band fluctuation is ±2.25%. The arrangements imply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the do- mestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. Germany has no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are nego- tiated at free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. No. Exchange control authorities All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074 (1996). In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 3 35 GERMANY Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requ irements F in an c ing requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU with var ious supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Uk ra ine are subject to an annual quota under a vo lun ta ry restrictions agreement. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to the EU 's annual global quota. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is requ ired for all goods. Export licenses W i thout quotas Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to ind iv idu al or general l icens ing. The customs au thor i t ies exercise control over export declarations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 GERMANY Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of federal savings bonds by nonresident entities is not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of bonds denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks with a matur- ity of less than 2 years is prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents Securities denominated in deutsche mark should only be issued under the lead manage- ment of credit institutions domiciled in Germany. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of money market securities and instruments denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks with a maturity of less than 2 years is prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of money market securities and instruments denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks by both residents and nonresidents is prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks are subject to m i n im um reserve requirements on the level of their foreign l iab i l i- ties with maturities of less than 4 years of 2% on sight deposits and time deposits and 1.6% on savings deposits; the requirements in pr inc ip le are the same as those applied to domestic liabilities. Book liabilities to nonresidents in foreign currency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign cur- rency with maturities of less than 4 years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 337 Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Yes. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency The currency of Ghana is the cedi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate in the interbank market is used for official valuation pur- poses but is not always applied by authorized banks in their transactions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other curren- cies, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the central banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payment agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. Ghana has agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Roma- nia, and the Slovak Republic. The clearing balances on these agreements are being settled. The Foreign Transactions Examinations Office (FTEO) of the BOG records and con- firms foreign capital inflows and administers foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and trans- acted by authorized banks without reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Domestic transactions in gold may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the BOG, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold M in ing Products Protection Ordinance. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 339 Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, inc lud ing bu l l ion and partly worked gold, is levied at a un iform rate of 30%. The gold mines export the ir output in semirefmed form. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to $5,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers may reimport up to the $5,000 they were allowed to export. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. No. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident account status is granted to em- bassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of h igh commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of the ir staffs. It is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. Prior approval is required. The accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward pay- ments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds —may be deposited in blocked accounts, wh ich may be debited for authorized payments, inc lud ing for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for impor ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Preshipment inspection Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 Letters of credit Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar i f fs GHANA Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Imports of narcotics and firearms are not permitted. Tariffs range from zero to 25% of the c.i.f. value of imports. A significant portion of imports, mostly for investment, is exempted. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requ irements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are requ ired to collect and repatriate in f u ll the proceeds from their exports w i th in 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of non trad i t ional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35% of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60% for the Ashanti Gold M in ing Company, 20% for log exporters, and 2% for the Cocoa Board. The retention ratio for nontraditional exports is 100%, and proceeds are generally channeled through banks other than the BOG. F inan c ing requ irements No. Documen ta t ion requ irements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Letters of credit are requ ired, except for non trad i t ional exports. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is requ ired, except for nontraditional exports. Export licenses Export taxes No. Cocoa exports are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the d ifference between export proceeds and payments to farmers, together with the Cocoa Board's costs if pro- ceeds exceed payments. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on paymen ts for insurance and interest, on remittances of profits and dividends, or on the use of credit cards abroad. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, prov ided that the application is properly documented. Residents trave l ing abroad are permitted to carry up to the equ iva lent of $3,000. In ad- d i t ion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $5,000 for direct purchases abroad. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 341 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); indi- vidual holdings and total holdings of all nonresidents in one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, non- resident participation requires the following minimum equity injections to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is a jo int ven- ture; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is who l ly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in capital goods in the case of a trading enterprise involved only in the purchasing and selling of goods that is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian and that employs at least 10 Ghanaians. These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The transfer or repatriation of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. There are no restrictions on these purchases, but the transfer of funds for the purchase of securities requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Current regulations do not allow nonresidents to bring in foreign exchange for the pur- pose of investing in local money market instruments (BOG and government securities). However, nonresidents ho ld ing local currencies can invest in these instruments. These transactions are not allowed. No restrictions apply to these purchases, but the transfer of funds for purchases of these instruments is not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases require prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions, as well as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated w i th these sales, require BOG approval. There are no restrictions on these purchases, but the transfer of funds needs prior ap- proval from the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the consent of the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Currently, a local market in derivatives and other instruments does not exist. No restric- tions apply, but the transfer of funds abroad requires BOG approval. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Prior approval is required for the credits, which must be channeled through the banking system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 Financial credits GHANA To residents from nonresidents These credits require BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code (1981), under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Disputes over the amount of compensation are settled in ac- cordance with the established procedure for conciliation —for example, through arbitra- tion by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. The m in imum qua l i fy ing amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a jo in t- venture enterprise with a Ghanaian partner; (2) $450,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in goods by way of equity capital when the enterprise is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian, employs at least 10 Ghanaians, and is involved in the purchasing and selling of goods. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Ind iv idua ls are not normally granted foreign exchange for these purchases. Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases required the prior approval of an Implementing Committee through the Minister of Foreign Affairs un t il August 1996, when Parliament repealed this require- ment. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Central bank notification is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Central bank notification is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange These purchases are allowed within reasonable or acceptable limits. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Based on the vo lume of foreign exchange transactions of dealer banks. This is subject to periodic review. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 343 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Nonresidents cannot buy more than 74% of shares in companies registered on the GSE. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes During 1996 Capital transactions August 8. The prior approval of an Implementing Committee through the Minister of Foreign Affairs is no longer required for the purchase of local real estate by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 22, 1992. Currency The currency of Greece is the drachma. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The exchange rate for the drachma is determined in daily f ix ing sessions in which the Bank of Greece (BOG) and authorized commercial banks participate. Greece is a mem- ber of the EMS. The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not par- ticipate in the ERM of the EMS. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations The BOG provides credit institutions forward foreign exchange transactions inc lud ing currency swaps and options. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in drachmas. No. There are no exchange controls. Resident credit institutions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions with nonresidents and are obliged to prov ide to the BOG all the information necessary to compile the balance of payments. In addition, natural and ju r id ical persons must inform the BOG, for statis- tical purposes, of transactions with nonresidents of sums greater than ECU 2,000 if a domestic bank ing institution is not involved. n.a. Yes. No. Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the BOG through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the BOG. These gold coins may be resold only to the BOG or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965, may sell them w i thout any formality to the BOG or to an authorized bank at the off ic ial price. Controls on external trade Gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may be reexported after approval by the BOG. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 345 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Residents and nonresidents leaving Greece should declare amounts of banknotes and personal checks in domestic and foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of ECU 2,000. For amounts up to the equivalent of ECU 10,000, they must provide in the declaration their fiscal number and the purpose of the transfer. If the amount is up to ECU 20,000, they must also provide a copy of their tax certificate. Exports of larger amounts must be carried out through resident credit institutions. Yes. Nonresidents leaving Greece w i th in a year of their arrival may take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $1,000, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irrespective of amount. Larger amounts can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year fo l low ing the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry. Residents and nonresidents entering Greece should declare the imported banknotes and personal checks in domestic and foreign currency, if the total amount exceeds the equivalent of ECU 10,000. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange and foreign banknotes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Residents may also open accounts in foreign exchange with unde- clared foreign banknotes; principal and interest on these accounts may be withdrawn in drachmas and in foreign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 GREECE Import licenses and other nontariff measures Special import licenses are required for some specific products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, interest, medical treatment, subscription and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, family maintenance and alimony, or on the remittances of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit is ECU 2,000 a trip a person in banknotes; additional amounts are permitted upon presentation of the relevant documentation. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit is ECU 2,000 a trip a person in banknotes; additional amounts are permitted upon presentation of the relevant documentation. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are permitted, with the provision of the relevant documentation. Approval is subject to relevant documentation. The l im it on withdrawal in foreign banknotes is the equivalent of ECU 1,000 a month. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 347 Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature in the broadcasting and maritime sectors, which may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment, is prohibited. No. No. No. No. Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of na- tional security. There are also restrictions on the acquisition of m in ing rights and par- ticipation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or maritime and air transport. No. No. No. No. Transactions in nonorganized capital markets are not allowed. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: January 24, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the for- mer Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Settlements with residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some im- port payments and certain other outward payments. The Trade Division of the MOF administers trade control. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The MOF issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency n.a. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 349 Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holder of these accounts must submit regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The same regulations as for resident accounts apply. These accounts must be credited with funds from an external source, and a statement of debits and credits must be submitted to the MOF every month for each external account. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted im- ports and any goods (and services) in excess of the limits of authorized dealers require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Ceiling prices on garments, handbags, refrigerators, and stoves are set. Prohibited goods inc lude whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quantitative restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, in- cluding m i lk, sugar, rice, a variety of tropical fru i ts and vegetables, carbonated bever- ages, arms and ammunition, industrial gas, paints, and miscellaneous items associated with furn i ture, clothing, and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, cigarettes, industrial gas, fu rn i tu re, exotic birds, solar water heaters, and various tropical fruits and vegetables. Imports from non-CARICOM countries are subject to a CET of 30%-35%. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge, and imports not exempt from customs duties are subject to a consumption tax of 15%, 20%, or 55%. Imports of capital equipment and imports by domestic associations invo lved in ma jor crop production (provided they are for improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, maize, or nutmeg) are exempt from import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 GRENADA State import monopoly The Marketing and National Importing Board (MNIB) is the sole authorized importer of bu lk purchases of milk, flour, and sugar. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers in foreign exchange (commercial banks). n.a. n.a. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of exotic birds, coral, mineral products, and live sheep and goats to any destination. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports for subscriptions and membership fees, interest payments, and the use of credit cards abroad are not restricted. Profit/dividends Prior approval Approval is granted if all related liabilities have been discharged and the investment was registered with the MOF. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are ECS 100,000 a person a year for personal and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits The limit is ECS 100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Pensions Prior approval MOF approval is required, and permission is usually granted on presentation of docu- mentation of registration and the costs of tuition and other expenses. MOF approval, which is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payment for such services, is required. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, subject where applicable to withholding on income tax. Yes. Approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 351 Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of established liabilities. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from inv is ib les is mandatory. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. n.a. Residents may not purchase foreign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required, Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required, Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits MOF approval is required. By residents to nonresidents Local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted and requires the approval of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 GRENADA To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents MOF approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents MOF approval is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment MOF approval is required. Inward direct investment Exchange control approval is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the MOF. Controls on real estate transact ions An alien landholding license must be issued by the Office of the Prime Minister. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance approved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF and is not ordinarily permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1996 Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers February 1. The l im it on foreign exchange a person may purchase from authorized dealers without obtaining exchange control approval was increased to ECS 100,000 from ECS 10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guatemala is the quetzal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market where the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) intervenes to moderate undue fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector, and to service its own external debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market dur ing the day before the previous business day. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars, do- mestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with special payment agreements. Regional arrangements Guatemala is a member of the CACM. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities The BOG administers exchange controls. Foreign exchange transactions in the pub l ic sector are carried out exclusively through the BOG; those in the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments related to official debt, mostly with Paris Club creditors. n.a. The BOG may buy and sell gold coins and bu l l ion either directly or through authorized banks and is entitled to buy gold holdings surrendered by any resident. The BOG sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accordance with guidelines from the Monetary Board with the government's approval. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the BOG issues a special export li- cense. Gold is imported only by the BOG. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 GUATEMALA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Members of embassies and staff of international institutions are allowed to hold these accounts, but approval is required. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. Licenses are required for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, and cottonseed. Guatemala applies the common external tariff of the CACM, which ranges from 5% to 20% with virtually all intra-CACM trade exempt from tariffs. Some products, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and alcohol, which are traded with the CACM, are subject to tariffs ranging from 5% to 20%. The weighted-average tariff is 8%. Tariffs are 20% on textiles and footwear, 15% on tires, and 25% on clothing. There are a number of excep- tions and special tariff regimes, and about 3% of imported items are subject to tariffs independently of the CACM. Some agricultural products are subject to variable levies between 5% and 45%. Imports of chicken are subject to tariffs of 20% up to a monthly quota of 300 tons and 45% for imports exceeding this quota. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds must be sold to an authorized participant in the interbank market other than the BOG. The granting of export licenses is contingent upon the agreement to sell export proceeds to any authorized participant in the interbank market other than the BOG w i th in 90 days of the date of issue (this period may be extended to 180 days). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 355 F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exporters must obtain an export license issued by the BOG before the Guatemalan cus- toms can authorize shipment of the merchandise. A few other items, inc lud ing gold (unless the BOG issues a special export license) and silver, may not be exported in any form. Exports of wheat flour, ethyl alcohol, roasted coffee, and tobacco and cigarettes to Cen- tral American countries are temporarily restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds for inv is ib les must be sold to an authorized financial institution at the market rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special legislation. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 GUATEMALA Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit for banks and finance companies is 25% of the value of their paid-up capital and reserves; for exchange houses, it is 100%. Foreign exchange exceeding these limits at the end of each day must be negotiated in the interbank market or sold to the BOG. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Guinea is the Guinean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is determined by supply and demand for foreign exchange between authorized dealers and their clients, or among dealers themselves. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settle- ments on account of transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements. Settlements with countries other than members of the WACH are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (CBRG). Guinea maintains bilateral payment agreements with Bulgaria, China, the Czech Repub- lic, Egypt, Romania, Russia, and the Slovak Republic. Settlements with the BCEAO, and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauri- tania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control authority is vested in the CBRG, which has delegated to the commer- cial banks authority to (1) approve import and import application forms; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers ho ld ing foreign a ir l ine tickets; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. All settlements with foreign countries, inc lud ing payments for im- ports, may be effected by the commercial banks. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The CBRG purchases gold in Guinean francs at international prices. At the seller's re- quest, the CBRG may purchase 50% of output in foreign currency. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 GUINEA Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restrictions. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the CBRG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exportation of foreign currency is made through the CBRG. Importation is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permitted, subject to dec- laration on entry. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of their return. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Exporters may hold all of their earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. Approval required n.a. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be credited with deposits in foreign ex- change, irrespective of its origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts The same regulations as for resident accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. F inanc ing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements The minimum financing requirement must be at least $2,000. Advance payment requirements Advance payments may be established by the commercial agreement. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All imports of up to $200,000 require authorization, which is granted by the commercial banks on behalf of the CBRG. Authorization is given for 2 types of imports: (1) imports for which importers have access to foreign exchange provided at rates determined ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 359 dur ing weekly f ix ing sessions; and (2) imports financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources. To obtain authorization, importers are required to f i ll out either an import form for imports of up to $5,000 f.o.b., or an import application request form for imports of more than $5,000 f.o.b. For imports financed w i th foreign exchange obtained from the in terbank foreign exchange market, authorization is given only after price, qua l i ty, and terms of f inanc ing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the daily f ix ing sessions. Imports financed w i th importers' own foreign exchange resources comprise goods for wh ich foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the off ic ial foreign exchange resources of Gu inea and ma in ly cover imports by 3 "mixed-economy" companies (the Fr igu ia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; and AREDOR, the diamond company) and foreign embassies. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Imports of armaments, ammun i t ions, and narcotics are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, custom duties of 8%, and customs charges of 7%, with the fo l low ing exceptions: animals, f lour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6% duty and a 2% charge; and food industry imports, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to an 8% duty and a 2% charge. In addition, a surtax of 20% or 30% is imposed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 30% to 60% is levied on nonalcoholic beverages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports of the 3 mixed enterprises in the m in ing sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Private traders may retain all of their proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold ex- porters and vendors may retain all of their proceeds. Mixed enterprises may retain abroad all the ir proceeds and may use them for import payments, operating costs, and external debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require domiciliation w i th a commercial bank and submission of an export description to help prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption and to iden t i fy capital outflows. Exports of the m in ing sector are exempt from th is requ iremen t. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses The exportation of w i ld animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethno- graphic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds require special authorization from designated agencies. Planters may be granted special authori- zation to export specific quan t i t ies of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fru i ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 Without quotas With quotas Export taxes GUINEA Yes. Yes. Exports of diamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Administrative expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Profit/dividends Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 361 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. The m in imum investment is GF 10 m i l l ion. Guinean nationals must have controlling interests in enterprises requiring foreign investment of GF 10 m i l l ion to GF 50 m i l l ion. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Imports and import payments July I. A VAT with a rate of 18% was introduced, replacing the turnover tax. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau peso. There are 2 exchange rates: (1) the official rate set by the Central Bank of Guinea- Bissau (CBGB) for its transactions and for those of government agencies, and (2) the commercial rate. Up to March 1997, Guinea-Bissau maintained a managed float system. The official buy ing rate against the U.S. dollar, which served as the intervention currency, was ad- justed as necessary and maintained within a 2% average of the commercial rate. The commercial rate is freely determined in the foreign exchange market consisting of 2 commercial banks and exchange bureaus. The CBGB regularly intervenes in the market through sales of foreign exchange. Effective from March 13, 1997, Guinea-Bissau pegged the peso to the CFA franc. The currency conversion lasted 3 months and was effected at the rate of PG 65 per CFAF 1 on the basis of the December 31, 1996 market exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Guinea-Bissau participates in the WACH, which includes member countries of the BCEAO, as well as The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sier- ra Leone. On May 2, 1997, Guinea-Bissau joined the WAEMU. The CBGB exercises control over foreign exchange transactions invo lv ing the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. Foreign exchange transactions effected by commercial banks with resources derived from sources other than those of the CBGB are, in general, not controlled by the CBGB. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yhe CBGB may engage in gold purchases and sales transactions with the public. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 363 Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency n.a. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange they have declared on entry. On imports n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Residents may maintain foreign exchange accounts if they are authorized to engage in foreign currency transactions or if they receive income in foreign currency under con- tracts with nonresidents. Prior approval is required. Held abroad n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Demand and time accounts with commercial banks. Balances on these accounts may be used w i thout restriction, except for the requirement of prior notice for withdrawals above certain preestablished limits. Banks may pay interest up to 4% a year on demand accounts, whereas interest rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely. Prior ap- proval is required. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures All imports, regardless of whether they invo lve the use of off ic ial or free market fore ign exchange, requ ire a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tour- ism, primarily for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically after verification of invoice prices for goods to be taxed. Since the official ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange in the country is not considered when licenses are is- sued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their pos- session does not guarantee the importers access to the off ic ial exchange market. However, importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system w i th the ir own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the parallel market. Pay- ments for imports w i th foreign exchange purchased from, or administered by, the CBGB requ i re authorization from the CBGB, wh ich is granted on the basis of the p r io r i ty of the products invo lved and the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 364 GUINEA-BISSAU Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. n.a. Imports are subject to tariffs up to 70%, a customs service tax of 6% to 10%, and a 3% surcharge. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters must surrender all receipts to the banking system; the intermediary banks purchase for their own account 70% at a rate freely agreed with the exporter and the remaining 30% for the account of the CBGB at the official rate on the date of settlement of the export transaction. F inan c ing requ irements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exports require a pr ior export license. Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Prior licenses are intended pr imar i ly for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products of which the exporta- tion is reserved solely for the pub l ic sector. Yes. Exports, except those to ECOWAS countries, are subject to a customs service tax of 5%, with cashew nut exports also subject to a special tax of 13%. Agricultural exports are also subject to a rural property tax of 2% if they are processed and 1% if unprocessed. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Pensions Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Fam i ly maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad There are no controls on payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, interest payments, profits and dividends, medical costs, study abroad costs, subscriptions and membership fees, and consulting and legal fees. The l im it is the equivalent of $5,000. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Surrender requ irements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 365 Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Investment Code provides incentives to inward direct investments and protection against the nationalization and expropriation of assets. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1997 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement January 1. Guinea-Bissau accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Exchange arrangements March 3. The exchange rate of the Guinea-Bissau peso was pegged to the CFA franc. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The agreement to admit Guinea-Bissau into the WAEMU on May 2, 1997 was ratified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Currency The currency of Guyana is the Guyana dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is determined freely in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana (BOG) conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio rate by averaging quotations of the 3 largest dealers on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. No. No. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the offi- cial sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in dormant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been given for deposits made after end-March 1989. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative There are arrangements with all CARICOM central banks. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The Exchange Control Act was repealed in May 1996. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Arrears exist with Argentina, China, India, Kuwait, Libya, OPEC Fund, Russia, Vene- zuela, and Yugoslavia. Arrears exist on certain dormant accounts holding domestic currency deposits equiva- lent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form except for numismatic purposes, and jewelry, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits issued by the Guyana Gold Board. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 367 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Foreign currency Travelers entering Guyana w i th foreign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of $10,000 must declare the amount. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Exporters are allowed to ma in ta in and operate foreign exchange accounts. These ac- counts are approved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who re- qu ire imported inpu ts for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts may be convertible at the preva i l ing cambio exchange rate. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts External accounts may be opened by commercial banks w i thout the pr ior approval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad; citizens of other countries temporar i ly res id ing in Guyana; nonresidents attached to d ip loma t ic missions or international organizations; branches of companies incorporated outside of Guyana; and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars, and may be credited w i th noncash instruments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the bank ing system. These accounts may also be credited freely w i th all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits requ ire ap- proval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other external accounts, for w i thdrawa ls by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonres ident accounts. External accounts opened by persons who temporar i ly resided in Guyana and who en- joyed diplomatic privileges and immun i t ies were discontinued on January 2, 1997. The BOG guaranteed fo re ign exchange to cover these accounts upon request by the com- mercial bank where they were he ld. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The BOG prepares a hard currency receipts and payments statement to mon i tor pro- jected flows. F inanc ing requirements for imports Import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted w i thout restriction. Most imports of consumer goods take place on th is basis. Certain payments for o f f ic ial imports effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG requ i re the Bank's pr ior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 GUYANA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Requirements are related mainly to petroleum products. Other Documents required include invoices, b i l ls of lading, and certificates of origin. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum prod- ucts and some 20 items affecting national security, health, pub l ic safety, and the environment. Negative list Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, fru i t, and processed f ru it items are restricted, subject to import-licensing controls, from all non-CARICOM sources. Import taxes and/or tar iffs The GET of CARICOM is applied to all imports from outside the market. Tariffs range from 5% to 25%. Intra-CARICOM trade is free of import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repa tr ia t ion requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes The requirement was eliminated on December 31, 1996. No. No. Licenses are required for exports of gold and w i ld l i fe. Gold exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferential markets, and for w i ld l i fe exports. There are levies on exports of rice and sugar. For exports of timber, bauxite, sugar, live birds, and aquarium fish, an export duty is applied. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio exchange market. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments There are no securities in Guyana. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 369 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing requires prior approval. Financial credits Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Positions are presently being monitored. The setting of limits is under consideration. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts May 6. The Exchange Control Act was repealed. Exports and export proceeds December 31. The surrender requirement was eliminated. Nonresident accounts Changes During 1997 January 2. The system of external accounts for persons who temporarily resided in Guyana and who enjoyed diplomatic privileges and immunities was discontinued, and eligible customers were encouraged by commercial banks to open nonresident foreign currency accounts. Wh i le operative, these Guyana dollar-denominated accounts were provided foreign exchange guarantee by the BOG, upon request of the commercial banks where they were held. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the gourde. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate is determined in the exchange market. Since April 1995, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH), the central bank, has operated a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by money changers, with the banks following this market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. In December 1996, 85% of Haiti's debt toward Argentina was canceled, and the remain- ing 15% was rescheduled until 2001. The BRH administers the foreign exchange system together with the Ministry of Fi- nance and Economic Affairs (MFEA) and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). International security restrictions Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The BRH has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Gold in any form, other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers, may be imported and exported only by the BRH. Exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the MCI and the MFEA, as well as 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 371 an endorsement from the MCI, before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad re- ceived by exchange houses, or with receipts from mar i t ime agencies and nongovernmen- tal organizations. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Same regulations as for residents apply. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ irements F inanc ing requ irements Export licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are 3 standard tariff rates, 5%, 10%, and 15%. Several goods have special tariff rates —gasoline, 25%; and cement, rice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic turnover tax is charged on the c.i.f. va lue p lus import duties. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a 4% verification fee. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior authorization from the MCI. Authorization is usua l ly granted freely but may be w i thhe ld when domestic supplies are low. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 W i thout quotas W i th quotas HAITI n.a. Exports of manufactured products to the United States, such as women's and girls' blouses and shirts of cotton and synthetic fibers, men 's shirts of synthetic fibers and cotton, cotton gloves, cotton pants, and cotton housecoats are subject to quotas. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ irements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Investments requ ire pr ior government approval. Investments in handcraft industries are not normally approved. Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Private banks are required to maintain at least 85% of their l iab i l i t ies in domestic assets for local customers. This requirement, however, is not enforced. Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of nonres ident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requ iremen ts for local currency deposits are 48%. No reserve requirements apply to fore ign currency deposits. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Impor ts and impo rt payments June JO. The 3% consular fee and the 1% adm in is tra t ive fee on all imports were re- placed by a 4% ve r i f ica t ion fee. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1950. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. There are two exchange rates: the rate resulting from the auctions and the rate used for debt conversion (L 2 = $1). The exchange rate for the lempira is determined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are required to sell all their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private indi- viduals) bid at a price that cannot d iffer from the base price set by the authorities by more than 5% in either direction. The base exchange rate is adjusted every 5 auctions according to changes in the differential between domestic and international inflation and in the exchange rates of currencies of trading partners of Honduras with respect to the U.S. dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of foreign exchange from its agents. The m in imum amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Individuals w i l l ing to purchase foreign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between $5,000 and $300,000. Foreign exchange agents may purchase for their own account to satisfy private demands lower than $5,000. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that can be purchased for this purpose is $30,000 for com- mercial banks and $10,000 for foreign exchange houses. Foreign exchange agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the pub l ic lower than $5,000 and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Auction rates may deviate from the base rate by ±5%. Auctions are held once each working day and each bidder can make up to 3 offers in each auction. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Trade transactions w i th the rest of Central America may be carried out in local curren- cies, barter and compensation mechanisms, or U.S. dollars. No. Exchange control authorities The CBH exercises control. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private No. Yes. n.a. n.a. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 HONDURAS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade In general, imports and exports of gold require a license issued by the CBH; such li- censes are not normally granted. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles that contain gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5%. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults, (2) deposits in the CBH, (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (4) invest- ments in h igh - l iqu id i ty foreign instruments, or (5) advance export- or import-financing instruments. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Same regulations as for resident accounts apply. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports The financing of imports is channeled either through the banking system or through exchange houses, with foreign exchange purchased in the free market or with credits obtained abroad. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Most imports do not require a license. However, imports exceeding $3,000 must be registered. Positive list Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Import duties range from zero to 20%. Over 1,600 items from other Central American countries are exempt from import duties, except for a 1.5% import surcharge. There are duty-free and industrial processing zones that benefit from tariff exemptions. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 375 Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export earnings, except those from trade with other Central American countries, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses w i th in a period of 20 to 85 days. Pro- ceeds from coffee exports must be surrendered within 20 days. Exporters are allowed to retain 30% of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized external obligations. Commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell all the purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. F inanc ing requirements No. Export licenses Export taxes No licenses are required, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. Bananas are subject to an export tax of $0.50 for a 40-pound box. However, production from newly planted areas is exempt, wh i le production from rehabilitated areas is subject to a $0.25 tax for a box. Sugar is subject to an export tax when the export price exceeds a certain level. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are required to f i ll out a form stating the purpose for wh ich the funds w i ll be used. There are no lim- its on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms are permitted w i th the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. On capital market securities Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. There are no restrictions on activities invo lv ing the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mu tual funds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 HONDURAS Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The approval of congress is required for all public sector foreign borrowing. Private sector external debt contracts must be registered with the CBH for statistical purposes only. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Investments are permitted in all sectors without restriction, with the exception of de- fense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Investments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered w i th the Secretary of Economy and Trade. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions No. n.a. n.a. Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBH approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks must deposit abroad 38% of foreign exchange deposits held by the private sector. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required. Financial ins t i tu t ions may lend 50% of the ir foreign exchange deposits locally in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements All types of deposits are subject to a 12% requirement. Liquid asset requirements Foreign exchange deposits are subject to a 50% requirement. Credit controls Credit with funds from foreign exchange deposits must be granted to export-related industries. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Changes During 1996 377 Exchange arrangements April 19. The base exchange rate is to be modified after every 5 auctions according to changes in the differential between domestic and international inflation and in the ex- change rates of the currencies of trading partners of Honduras with respect to the U.S. dollar. Auction rates cannot deviate from the base rate by more than 5% in either direction. Imports and import payments January L The customs service surcharge was lowered to 1.5%. Exports and export proceeds January L The 10% income tax for coffee with an f.o.b. value greater than $80 a quintal was eliminated retroactively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG, CHINA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong dollar. Commemorative gold coins of HK$ 1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by collec- tors and seldom circulated. The authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the 3 note-issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued at the linked exchange rate as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues to each note-issuing bank non- interest-bearing certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Conversely, the note-issuing banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering certificates of indebtedness and withdrawing local banknotes from circu- lation at the same linked exchange rate. The amount of indebtedness of the Exchange Fund represented by the certificates of indebtedness w i ll be reduced accordingly. Other banks may acquire local currency notes from the note-issuing banks against Hong Kong dollar deposits for Hong Kong dollar value. The exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates for all transactions except those that are conducted for note-issuing purposes between the Exchange Fund and the note- issuing banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Sanctions are implemented by the Hong Kong government in accordance with Orders in Council issued by the Hong Kong government, which has the status of law in Hong Kong. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions n.a. n.a. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG, CHINA 379 Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade. Import licenses are required for reasons of health, safety, environmental protec- tion, or security, or for fu l f i l lm ent of Hong Kong's international trade obligations. All imports are free of duties, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 HONG KONG, CHINA F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade. Export licenses are required for reasons of health, safety, environmental protec- tion, or security, or for fu l f i l lment of Hong Kong's international trade obligations. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capi- tal gains, d is tr ibu t ion from trusts, and d iv idends is not taxed in Hong Kong; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong is subject to a profits tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by ind iv idua ls is not subject to the salaries tax. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by resi- dents or nonresidents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securities, and fu tures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry w i th in 1 month of establishing a business in Hong Kong. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts All authorized ins t i tu t ions are required to report to the Hong Kong Monetary Au thor i ty (HKMA) their foreign currency positions ( inc lud ing options) monthly. Locally incorpo- rated institutions are required to report the ir consolidated foreign currency positions. The aggregate net open position (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of ind iv idual currencies) should normally not exceed 5% of the capital base of the institu- tion and the net open position in any ind iv idual currency should not exceed 10% of the capital base. For subsidiaries of foreign banks, where the parent consolidates the foreign exchange risk on a global basis and there is adequate home supervision, the HKMA may accept h igher limits. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA reviews and monitors ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG, CHINA 381 their internal limits, which are usually set by their head offices and home supervisory authorities. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian forint. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) adjusts the official exchange rate of the forint in accordance with a preannounced rate of crawl effected against a currency basket com- prising the deutsche mark (70%) and the U.S. dollar (30%). The official exchange rate is fixed at 11:00 a.m. every day against the basket and is calculated for 20 convertible currencies and the ECU within margins of 2.25%, but licensed banks are free to deter- mine their own margins within the band. No. No. Commercial banks may engage in forward transactions at exchange rates negotiated freely between the banks and their customers. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There are agreements with Brazil and Ecuador, under which outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. There are agreements w i th Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Russia, and Vietnam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods. Exchange control authorities Authority for enforcing foreign exchange regulations is vested in the NBH. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661, Hungary continues to maintain payments restrictions against Iraq. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may, without a license, take out of the country up to Ft 300,000 a trip. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency HUNGARY 383 Exports are limited to the equivalent of Ft 50,000 a person a trip, w i thout a license. Imports are limited to Ft 300,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Resident natural persons may freely maintain convertible currency accounts at author- ized commercial banks. Resident ju r id ical persons may open convertible currency ac- counts only with funds originating from specific sources, such as export proceeds, foreign borrowing, and capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint-venture companies, inheritance, or donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches and social organizations, and budgetary institutions. Prior ap- proval is required. Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Conversion is free in all liberalized items and in all authorized cases. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requ irements for imports Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Yes. Yes. Convertible fo r int accounts may be credited with legally acquired for in t; proceeds from the conversion of convertible currency or for int acquired from non l ibera l ized or unau- thorized transactions can be placed in a nonconvertible for int account, wh ich does not bear interest. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A declaration stating the use of foreign exchange must be completed. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Licenses are required for imports that are destined for the settlement of outstanding balances in transferable or clearing rubles. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. Licenses are needed for products fa l l ing under the global quota on consumer goods. Goods for personal use brought in by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a gen- eral import duty of 15%, based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 8,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs duty, goods for personal use ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 HUNGARY up to a value equivalent to 40% of their earnings. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to an import surcharge. The surcharge was reduced from 8% to 7% on Ju ly 1, 1996; to 6% on October 1, 1996; and to 4% on March 10, 1997. It is to be re- duced further to 3% on May 15, 1997, and eliminated by Ju ly 1, 1997. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be received in officially quoted convertible currencies, in Hungar- ian for int from convertible forint accounts of nonresidents, or in nonconvertible cur- rency. Proceeds in convertible currencies must be repatriated to Hungary upon receipt of the foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, stipulated in the law, or subject to specific approval by the NBH. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, the exporters are required to make a best effort to exchange those into convertible currency and repa- triate the convertible currency. Foreign exchange receipts may be deposited in a foreign exchange account at a domestic bank but can only be used for all liberalized transactions. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresidents may be deposited in convertible forint accounts with licensed banks, and nonresidents are allowed to convert balances in such accounts into foreign exchange for transfer abroad. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of items included in the negative list require a license. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Proceeds are subject to the same requirement as export proceeds. Surrender requ irements Resident natural persons are exempted. Resident jur id ical persons, except for transfers defined as international economic activities ( inc lud ing exports), are subject to the sur- render requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Transactions in OECD central government bonds, bonds and shares of OECD-based enterprises w i th investment grade credit rating, and the sale of shares of parent compa- nies to the employees of its subsidiary company are free. For transactions in other instruments, a foreign exchange license is required. The license is liberally granted, on a case-by-case basis, after submitting a request and its accompanying documents. All ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 385 proceeds associated with authorized transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad by nonresidents. The same regulations as for sale or issue by nonresidents apply. Funds required for transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. The transaction may be done through a resident brokerage company. These transactions require a foreign exchange license, which is granted in exceptional cases, on a case-by-case basis, after submitting a request and its accompanying docu- ments. Proceeds associated with the transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds require a li- cense, which is granted in exceptional cases. The same regulations as for transactions in money market instruments apply. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations as for transactions in money market instruments apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds require a li- cense, which is granted in exceptional cases. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These transactions require a foreign exchange authority license, which is granted in exceptional cases, on a case-by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits between close relatives are free; in all other cases, a foreign exchange authority license is needed, which is granted liberally in the case of long- and medium-term cred- its and granted exceptionally in the case of short-term credits. Medium- and long-term financial credits for enterprises and private persons who borrow from their close relatives are allowed. All other credits require a foreign exchange authority license, wh ich is granted liberally, on a case-by-case basis. These transactions are allowed if they are related to international commercial transac- tions or if the guarantee is related to a customs duty. In all other cases, a foreign ex- change authority license is needed, which is granted liberally, on a case-by-case basis. Equity participation in a nonresident enterprise is considered as foreign direct invest- ment and is free if the participation in the share or equity capital or the va lue of assets of the foreign enterprise is more than 10%. The fo l low ing preconditions should also be met: (1) the law of the country of incorporation should allow the transfer to Hungary of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 HUNGARY profits and capital in convertible foreign exchange; (2) the resident's liability should not exceed (except in the case of a branch) its share in the enterprise; (3) the country of incorporation should be a member of the OECD, or there should be an investment pro- tection agreement in place with the country; (4) the resident should have no custom duty, tax or pension, health insurance, or social security contribution liability outstand- ing; (5) the resident should not be in bankruptcy or under liquidation and no such action should have been initiated against it in the year of application or the previous 2 calendar years; (6) during the period stipulated above, there should be no negative decision against the investor made by the foreign exchange authority; and (7) during the same period, no senior employee of the applicant should have been a senior member of the supervisory committee of an enterprise against which the foreign exchange authority had made a negative decision. If the planned investment does not meet any of the listed criteria, the application w i ll automatically fall under a foreign exchange authority licens- ing procedure. Foreign investment in the form of jo int ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established without approval, but in the case of banks, foreign participation exceeding 10% of equity requires government approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the jo int venture is considered as a Hungarian legal en- tity, but those in duty-free zones are exempted from several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qua l i fy as foreign investment. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Guarantee is given by law for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits, the invested capital, and capital gains. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A foreign exchange authority license is required on a case-by-case basis, which is granted liberally after submitting a request and its accompanying documents. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval of local municipal authorities is required. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Financial institutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange As of January 1, 1997, short-term lending is allowed within the fo l low ing rules: (1) Total outstanding lending to nonresidents should not exceed 50% of the total amount of convertible currency drawn from nonresidents or the amount stipulated in a foreign exchange authority license; and (2) A bank may not have an aggregate lending with an ind iv idual borrower of more than 25% of its adjusted capital. In the case of medium- and long-term lending, a case-by- case foreign exchange authority license is needed, which is granted liberally after sub- mitting a request and its accompanying documents. In the case of purchase of short-term securities with an original maturity of less than 1 year, their aggregate amount should not exceed 50% of the total amount of convertible currency liabilities. In that figure, short-term lending should also be included. In the case of purchase of medium- and long-term securities, the same rules apply as for residents. The granting of credits to foreigners by Hungarian financial institutions is, in most cases, limited to credits with maturities of up to 1 year. Short-term lending locally to nonresidents is allowed within the framework stipulated above. Lending to residents is liberalized. (The foreign exchange loan from the point of view of the resident borrower is practically an index loan, where the for int amount is indexed to the exchange rate of a convertible currency, since the borrower may get the loan only in domestic currency. From the po int of v iew of the bank, its books contain a foreign exchange lending.) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued foreign exchange denominated securities is allowed, but a foreign exchange authority license is required to issue such securities; this license is granted in exceptional cases, on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 387 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements As of January 1, 1997, the interest paid on obligatory reserves placed at the NBH on foreign exchange assets of the banks is 17%, and that paid on domestic currency assets is 12%. Interest rate controls n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The gross aggregate position is limited to 30% of the bank's adjusted capital. Banks should adhere to the l im it on a daily basis. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors In the case of insurance companies, these provisions are included in the Law on Insur- ance Companies and Insurance Activities (1995); in the case of pension funds, in a Gov- ernment Decree (1994); and in the case of mutual funds, in a law (1991). Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Investments abroad are not allowed. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement January 1. Hungary accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Arrangements for payments and receipts July L Residents and nonresidents were permitted to br ing into or take out of Hungary up to Ft 300,000 a person a trip. Capital transactions Capital transactions March 20. Government approval requirement was lifted for foreign participation ex- ceeding 10% of the equity of a bank. July L The issue and private placement and introduction of (1) OECD government bonds and (2) bonds and shares of OECD-based enterprises w i th highest credit rating were liberalized. Residents may acquire these securities from abroad through resident brokerage firms. July L The law on foreign exchange provided for the liberalization of the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities with rema in ing maturities of 1 year or more. That provision was changed to encompass debt instruments with an original maturity of 1 year or more. Resident employees of subsidiaries of foreign enterprises may buy the shares of the parent enterprise, even if the latter is not OECD-based or does not have the h ighest credit rating. Changes During 1997 January 1. The issue and introduction of bonds with a maturity of 1 year or more and shares of OECD-based enterprises w i th investment grade credit rating as well as deposi- tory receipts issued thereof as negotiable instruments were liberalized. Residents may acquire the above securities through any resident brokerage firm. Short-term lending to nonresidents by banks was limited to 50% of total foreign exchange liabilities (previously l im i ted to 50% of foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies from foreigners). Futures and options transactions between 2 foreign currencies by banks were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona (plural: kronur). A commemorative gold coin with face value of ISK 100 is legal tender, but it does not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The external value of the krona is pegged to a basket of 16 currencies: Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Iceland (CBI) intervenes in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate w i th in a margin of ± 6% around the central rate. No. No. Iceland has no organized forward market and the krona has no quoted forward exchange rate. However, forward contracts can be freely negotiated in all currencies. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has ultimate responsibilities for imports and, in consultation w i th the CBI, for capital movements and foreign exchange regulation. The CBI licenses the foreign exchange dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting requirements for statistical purposes and for implementation of control on inward for- eign direct investment. Iceland notified the IMF on Ju ly 31, 1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions On December 1, 1995, Iceland no t if ied the IMF that exchange restrictions against L ibya had been imposed in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993). Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 389 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents opening bank accounts abroad must provide the CBI w i th a notification of their opening. Held domestically Held abroad n.a. n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Banks must report to the CBI the mon th ly positions of nonresident accounts. All ac- counts in domestic banks must be iden t if ied by name and identification number. Yes. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports of foods and services are free, except when international agreements prov ide otherwise. Negative list Live animals and certain other agricultural products require health certificates. Open general licenses Imports by tourists and foreign visitors require a license. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. State import monopo ly Tobacco can only be imported under state trad ing arrangements. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Exports of m i l i tary, fisheries, and agricultural products requ ire licenses from the M in is- try of Foreign A f fa i rs and Foreign Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 ICELAND Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments The purchase of shares or other equity capital may be affected by laws on inward direct investment. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Sale or issue by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign direct investments are regulated by the special law on foreign investment (No. 34/1991), as follows: (1) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered companies who l ly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing l im it or operate primary fish processing facilities; (2) investments by foreign governments and pub l ic authorities are prohibited in Iceland; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic citizens, or domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermal energy; the restriction applies to power production and distri- bution companies; (4) investments by nonresidents in domestic airlines may not exceed 49%; (5) there are also restricted conditions for residency of managers and majority of voting power in holding companies; and (6) residents of the EEA are exempted from restriction (3), and the Minister of Commerce may grant exemptions from this and from requirement (2). Un t il May 15, 1996, investments by nonresidents in commercial banks could not exceed 25%, although foreign banks were allowed to open branches in Iceland, while financial limits were put on any single investment in Iceland and the total foreign investments in any industry. On the same date, indirect investments in the fish industry were allowed. The conditions to own real estate in Iceland are: (1) ind iv idual owners must be Icelandic citizens; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citizens; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 391 and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, w i th at least 80% owned by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors being Icelandic citi- zens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meet- ings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than 3 years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than 1 year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the r ight to exploit natural re- sources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least 5 years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Yes. No. No limits are imposed on portfolios invested locally or abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions Changes During 1996 January 1. Restrictions on foreign inward direct investment in the sector of energy de- velopment were abolished in accordance with EEA requirements. May 15. The special law on foreign investment (No. 34/1991) was amended, allowing foreign investment in the fish industry and abolishing restrictions in commercial banks and f inanc ial ceilings of ind iv idual investment and total investments in any industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Currency The currency of Ind ia is the Indian rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) purchases spot U.S. dollars from authorized persons at their designated offices or branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. No. No. Authorized dealers are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. Forward pur- chases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. The RBI has on occasion purchased or sold forward U.S. dollars. The RBI may enter into swap transactions, under wh ich it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for up to 6 months. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation with respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible curren- cies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are d iv ided into 2 groups: (1) Member countries of the ACU (except Nepal). All payments on account of eligible current international transactions must be settled through the ACU arrangement, as are transactions effected on a deferred basis with the ACU countries. However, settlement of payments toward imports of sugar, fertilizer, and pulses from any of the ACU coun- tries may be made outside the ACU mechanism in any permitted currency. Indian ex- porters are also permitted to accept payment in free foreign exchange in respect of their exports to ACU countries, provided such payment is vo lun tar i ly offered by the importer in the ACU country. (2) The external group (all other countries). Payments to these countries may be made in Indian rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency, and receipts from these countries may be obtained in Indian rupees from ac- counts maintained w i th an authorized dealer or in banks situated in any of these coun- tries or in any permitted currency. Payments relating to current transactions financed with loans from international ins t i tu t ions are settled outside the ACU mechanism. How- ever, special rules may apply with respect to exports under lines of credit extended by the government of Ind ia to the governments of certain foreign countries. Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Yes. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 393 Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the RBI does not deal in Nepalese rupees. The RBI stands ready to purchase and sell spot and sell forward currencies of the member coun- tries of the ACU. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the general policy laid down by the government in consultation w i th the RBI. Much of the rou t ine work of exchange control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India (SBI) as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10% of the total value, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Exporters of jewelry may import their essential inputs such as gold w i th im- port licenses granted by the licensing authority. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supply gold or silver in advance and free of charge for the manufacture and u l t i- mate export of gold or silver jewelry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewelry and Articles Export Promotion and Replenishment Scheme, exporters of gold jewelry and articles are entitled to replenishment of gold through the designated branches of the SBI, or any other agency nominated by the Ministry of Commerce, at a price indicated in the certificate issued by the SBI after the purchase of the gold. The Scheme is limited to exports that are supported by an irrevocable letter of credit, payment of cash on a delivery basis, or advance payment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold jewelry may also be allowed on a collection basis (documents against acceptance [DA]). The exporter has the option to obtain gold from the SBI in advance. On presentation of the required documents, the appropriate release order and gem re- plenishment license may be issued by the licensing authority, provided that the export- ers satisfy value-added and other requirements under the Scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is invo lved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or s i lver is im- ported for processing and reexportation, and provided that payments for the importation w i ll not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported w i ll be reexported in the form of jewelry, and the value added w i ll be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. In general, the exportation of Ind ian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is proh ib i ted. The exportation to Nepal of Ind ian currency notes in denom ina- tions higher than Rs 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 1,000 a person at any one t ime to countries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary v is i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted INDIA Authorized dealers, exchange bureaus, and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins, up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $2,000 or its equivalent a year to those going to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $2,500), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring in Indian currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 1,000 a person if they previ- ously took out th is amount when traveling abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought in w i thout limit, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent and/or if the aggregate value of foreign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds $2,500 or its equivalent. Resident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts. However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Accounts related to all foreign countries other than Bhutan and Nepal are treated as nonresident accounts. Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. (1) "Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts" of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited with: (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during his or her visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresi- dent banks; and (ii) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are required to ascertain the bona fide nature of the transaction before crediting the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, inc lud ing invest- ments in Ind ia that are covered by the general or special permission of the RBI. (2) "Nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts" may be opened for nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to authorized dealers ho ld ing licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled com- mercial banks not ho ld ing such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons dur ing temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency trave ler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country. They may also be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 395 account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder wh i le in Ind ia and with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or the foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts is also allowed for bona f ide personal purposes. The accounts may be debited for disbursement in Ind ia and for transfers abroad. Debiting is also permitted for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency; rupee trave ler's checks or trave ler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his or her fam i ly and dependents; and, in the case of corporate entities, for the use of directors and employees. Investments in the shares of Ind ian companies, in partnership firms and the like, or in immovab le property may be made w i th the approval of the RBI. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in Ind ia is exempt from the personal income tax, although jur id ical persons are not entitled to th is exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and ju r id ical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; g if ts to close relatives in Ind ia from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the g i ft tax. (3) "FCNR accounts" denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be he ld in the form of term deposits by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin and by overseas companies as specified above. These accounts may be credited w i th amounts received th rough normal bank ing channels, in c lud ing interest earnings. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the RBI. Balances may also be used for the purposes for wh ich debits to NRER accounts are allowed. The ex- change rate guarantees (issued by the RBI) on existing deposits under a previous FCNR scheme w i ll remain in effect un t il the deposits mature. The current FCNR accounts op- erate in the same manner as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) provides the exchange rate guarantee on deposit balances. (4) "Nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit accounts" may be opened by nonresi- dent Ind ian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predom inan t ly owned by nonresident Ind ian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Ind ian origin (except Pakistani and Ban- gladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened w i th funds in free ly conver t ib le foreign exchange remitted from abroad or f u n ds transferred from ex is t ing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any t ime. Since October 1994, the transfer abroad of accruing interest has been permitted. (5) "Foreign currency ord inary (nonrepatriable) deposit accounts" may be ma in ta ined by nonresidents. These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited w i th funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange, or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee va lue of the p r in- cipal and accrued interest may be credited to the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of the depositor. Nonresident (nonrepa tr iab le) rupee deposit accounts may be opened w i th funds in free ly conver t ib le fore ign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from ex is t ing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any t ime. Since October 1994, the transfer abroad of accru ing interest has been pe rm i t ted. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Positive list The importation of certain spec if ied precious, semiprecious, and other stones; safety, security, and related items; seeds, plants, and animals; insecticides and pesticides; drugs and Pharmaceuticals; chem ica ls and a l l ied items re la t ing to the small-scale sector; most consumer goods and certain other items is restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 Negative list INDIA Importation of tallow, fat and/or oils rendered or unrendered of any animal origin, ani- mal rennet, wild animals ( inc lud ing their parts and products), and ivory is prohibited. Imports from Fiji and Iraq are also prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. State import monopo ly Certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible and nonedible oils, seeds, and cereals are canalized for import through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Ind ian Oil Corporation Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trading Corporation of Ind ia Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated by the due date of receipt or w i th in 6 months of shipment, whichever is earlier. Regarding exports made to Indian-owned warehouses abroad es- tablished with the permission of the RBI, a period of up to 15 months is allowed for the realization of export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the RBI through authorized dealers in the event that the export value is not realized within the prescribed period. The RBI also administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrange- ments, so that the f u ll export va lue is paid in installments over more than 6 months. Exporters are permitted to retain up to 35% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign cur- rency accounts w i th banks in Ind ia. In the case of 100% export-oriented units, units in export processing zones, and un i ts in hardware/software technology parts, up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Licenses are required for exports of mineral ores and concentrates and chemicals, in- c lud ing those specified in the UN Chemical Weapons Convention. n.a. n.a. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for fre ight and insurance and un load ing and storage. Adm in is tra t ive expenses Commissions Interest paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. n.a. Remittances are allowed after all taxes and other l iab i l i t ies have been paid. Yes. Yes. Yes. Remittances are allowed subject to certain conditions and provided that all current taxes and other l i ab i l i t i es have been cleared. Yes. Yes. Up to $2,000 a person a year may be released by authorized dealers for 1 or more trips abroad, except v is i ts to Bhu tan and Nepal. The l im i ts for var ious categories of bus iness ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 397 travel are as follows: (1) the per diem for senior executives is $500 and for others, $350; (2) Indian firms participating in trade fairs/exhibitions and private printers and pub l ish- ers w ish ing to participate in overseas book fairs and exh ib i t ions abroad can obtain up to $20,000 or its equivalent; (3) the l im it for remittances by Indian sh ipp ing companies toward fees for solicitors and adjusters is $10,000; and (4) the limit for remittances to foreign data service vendors for the use of international data bases is $10,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Foreign workers, except those from China, Pakistan, and South Africa, are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to sup- port their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remit- tances of up to 75% of the net income of foreign workers, provided that the workers hold valid employment visas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Up to 25% of receipts may be retained. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign ins t i tu t ional investors (FIIs) are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, inc lud ing equity and other securities, and instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated government securities, either on behalf of clients or using proprietary fund s. FIIs are requ ired to register in i t ia l ly w i th the Securities and Exchange Board of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 INDIA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents India (SEBI) and with the RBI. There is no restriction on the value of investments by FIIs in the primary and secondary markets, but investment in debt instruments may not exceed 30% of total investment. Portfolio investments in primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 5% of the issued share capital for individual FH holdings and 24% of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one com- pany, with the exception of: (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration, which are permitted up to 51%; and (2) investments through offshore single and re- gional funds, global depository receipts, and convertibles in the Euromarket. Nonresidents are not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In regard to secu- rities of Indian companies held by nonresidents, transfer to a resident is required to be confirmed by the RBI. Transfer of sale proceeds is permitted subject to tax, provided no restrictions were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds while approving the origi- nal investment. Transfer between two nonresidents does not require such confirmation, but a nonresident transferee requires permission for the purchase of shares of an Indian company. RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any foreign security. If the acquisition is permitted, transfer of the needed funds from India is also permitted. In the case of a sale of foreign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to India is requ ired, unless otherwise specified. Indians who have returned to Ind ia after a m in i- mum continuous stay of 1 year abroad have been exempted from the requirement of obtaining RBI permission for continuing to hold securities already purchased prior to their return to India out of incomes earned by them wh i le abroad. They are also free to utilize sales proceeds of such securities for acquisition of further securities without permission of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations as for purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI approval. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require RBI approval. Residents are not permitted to purchase such instruments abroad w i thout authorization of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Resident companies are not permitted to issue any security to nonresidents without ap- proval of the RBI. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI prior approval. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue of collective investment securities by nonresidents on local markets in Ind ia is not permitted. Nonresidents can also acquire any foreign security without authorization from the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require RBI prior approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ ire permission from the RBI; the Un it Trust of Ind ia has been granted permission for issuing certain securities abroad. Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Resident companies are not permitted to issue rupee-based derivatives and other instru- ments in India. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase hedge instruments for corporate clients. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require RBI permission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents INDIA 399 A commercial credit of up to 6 months can be allowed regarding exports on DA terms. Contracts for exports invo lv ing payments to be realized beyond the normal period of 6 months are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permitted keeping in m ind the credit terms offered, commodity to be exported, and other related considera- tions. This applies to turnkey/construction/service contracts undertaken by Ind ian ex- porter on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the EXIM Bank offers credits to foreign buyers in connection with the export of capital goods and turnkey projects in Ind ia in participation with commercial banks in India. These are considered by EXIM Bank depending upon the creditworthiness, standing and financial position of the over- seas borrower, economic v iab i l i ty of the project, standing of the Indian exporter, etc. Short-term loans and credits ma tur ing w i th in 1 year are considered by RBI on the ir terms and cond i t ions comparable w i th the terms offered in overseas markets. Proposals for raising fore ign currency loans and credits, i.e., buyer's credits, supp l ier's credits, or lines of credit by firms, companies, or lend ing ins t i tu t ions, for financing the cost of goods, technology, or for any other purpose, require approval from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions require prior permission from the RBI. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured from nonres ident per- sons and companies ( in c lud ing banks) as well as repayment of such loans and credits, and payments of interest and other charges on such loans requ ire pr ior permission from the RBI. Borrowing proposals, except for loans less than 1 year, must be cleared by the MOF before they may be approved by the RBI. By residents to nonresidents These transactions require authorization from the RBI. To residents from nonresidents The RBI has permitted authorized dealers to grant loans to residents against guarantees from nonresidents, subject, inter alia, to the condition that no direct or indirect payment abroad by way of guarantee commission or otherwise is made. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments are subject to approval of the RBI. Proposals for participation in overseas jo int ventures, the setting up of who l ly owned subsidiaries or open ing of offices abroad that invo lve rem i t tance of cash, export of goods from Ind ia, etc., are considered in l ight of the f inanc ial pos i t ion and track record of the applicant Ind ian company, the past ex- port performance, and the benefits l ike ly to accrue in terms of foreign exchange earn- ings by way of exports, technology transfer, profits, d iv idends, and so forth. Foreign equ i ty up to 74% is permitted by the RBI in specified h igh -p r io r i ty indus tr ies on an automatic basis. The RBI also allows foreign equity ho ld ings up to 51% in trad ing companies p r ima r i ly engaged in export activities. Other applications require clearance from the government of India. A l iberal policy is followed for investments in Ind ia by nonresidents of Ind ian origin or overseas corporate bodies predominantly owned by such persons. Foreign companies are also permitted to set up liaison offices in Ind ia for carrying on liaison activities, prov ided the ir entire expenses are remitted from abroad. App l ica t ions for investment in areas that do not fall w i th in the authority of the RBI but that are covered by the foreign inves tment policy are approved by the Foreign Invest- ment Promotion Board (FIPB). Such investments may be approved up to 100% of capi- tal on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to fore ign direct investment, inc lud ing approvals. In the case of coal, hydro, and nonconven t ional energy-based power projects, the Power Ministry may grant automatic approvals of up to 100% fore ign equity under certain conditions. Nonresidents, nonc i t i- zens, and nonbank companies not incorporated under Ind ian law must have perm iss ion ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 INDIA from the RBI to initiate, expand, or continue any business activity in India and to hold or acquire shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activ- ity in India. Nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin may invest freely in any pub l ic or private limited company or in any partnership or proprietary concern engaged in any activity except agr icu l tural or plantation activities and real estate business (excluding real estate development, such as construction of houses, etc.), provided that (1) funds for invest- ment either are remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their nonresident accounts; (2) repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and d iv idends arising therefrom w i ll not be requested; and (3) overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin, and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also allowed to invest in any pub l ic or private limited company in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to: (1) make portfolio investments with repatriation benefits up to 1% of the capital, pro- v ided that their total ho ld ings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repa- triable or nonrepatriable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed 5%, or 24%, in the case a company so decides through a general body resolution, of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned; (2) invest freely in national savings certificates with fu ll repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40% of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manufac tur ing projects, hospitals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least 3-star category, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; (4) place up to 100% in new investments, inc lud ing expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries with free repatriation of such investments. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. Trading companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of the ir status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the RBI for remittances or dividends. The RBI has the authority to permit foreign invest- ment of up to 51% of the paid-up capital of such Indian companies. A higher percent- age, up to 100%, is considered for approval by the FIPB, provided that the fund ing company is primarily engaged in exports. Existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to 51% of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferen t ial allocation of shares to the foreign investor. Firms in certain manufac tur ing industries and tourist industries obtain RBI automatic approval for the expansion; (5) invest on a nonrepatriable basis in money market mu tual funds (only NRIs), subject to RBI approval; and (6) invest up to 51% of equity on a repatriable basis in unlisted companies in all indus- tries except those mentioned in Annex III of the Industrial Policy. Sale of shares, securities, and immovable property requires approval of the RBI. Repa- triation of after-tax sale proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition about nonrepatriation was imposed when approving the original investment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require RBI permission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents INDIA 401 Indians who have returned to India after a m in imum continuous stay of 1 year abroad are, however, permitted to hold immovable property acquired with funds earned while they were abroad. They are also free to dispose of such properties or acquire new prop- erties from the sale proceeds of such properties. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies (predominantly owned by nonresident Indians) may invest in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.); up to 100% of new investments may have to be locked in for a period of 3 years for disinvestment. After 3 years, remittances of disinvestment will be allowed up to the original investment in foreign exchange. In case of overseas corporate bodies, profits may be repatriated up to 16%. Sale locally by nonresidents Repatriation of after-tax sale proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition about nonrepatriation was imposed wh i le approving the original investment. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Borrowing is subject to approval by the government of India, the MOF, and the De- partment of Economic Affairs. Authorized dealers may avail themselves of loans, over- drafts, and other types of fund-based credit facilities from their overseas branches and correspondents up to $500,000 or its equivalent for meeting the requirements of normal exchange activities. Loans or overdrafts in excess of this limit may be obtained solely for the purpose of replenishing the dealers' rupee resources in India without prior ap- proval from the RBI. Repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the RBI or may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the RBI or any other bank or financial institution and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least 4 weeks before the repayment. Authorized dealers may maintain balances at levels that are commensurate with their normal business needs. In all other cases (e.g., airlines and shipping companies), spe- cific permission by the RBI is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending is subject to individual RBI approval. However, authorized dealers have been permitted to invest their temporary surplus funds in foreign treasury b i l ls and make deposits with banks abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Banks may lend to residents to meet genuine foreign exchange requirements toward preshipment credit in foreign currency for financing domestic inputs or for granting foreign currency loans to FCNR bank account holders. No scheme is in place a l low ing for these transactions. Wh i le resident deposit liabilities are subject to statutory reserve requirements, nonresi- dent deposits under FCNR (banks) and nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit schemes are completely exempted, and liabilities under the NRER scheme are subject to concessional reserve requirements. While interest on resident deposits for maturities of over 2 years has been completely deregulated, interest rates on FCNR (banks), wh ich need to be aligned to the interna- tional rates, are decided by the RBI. Interest rates on nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit schemes are, however, deregulated for all maturities. Credit controls n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Banks are required to maintain on an ongoing basis tier I capital at 5% of the open posi- tion l im it approved by the RBI, and the overall open position l im it should have a rea- sonable relation to the capital of the bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 INDIA Capital transactions Changes During 1996 February 28. The RBI allowed nonresident Indians (NRIs) to invest on a nonrepayable basis in money market mutual funds subject to RBI approval. NRIs and overseas corpo- rate bodies are allowed to invest on a repatriable basis up to 51% of equity in unlisted companies in all industries except those mentioned in Annex III of the Industrial Policy. April 3. The uniform limit on commercial banks' foreign exchange exposure was re- placed by individual limits to be approved by the RBI. August 5. Authorized dealers in foreign exchange were allowed to offer hedge instru- ments to Indian companies without prior approval. August 21. The Power Ministry granted automatic approvals of up to 100% foreign equity to coal, hydro, and nonconventional energy-based power projects under certain conditions. October 3. Authorized dealers were allowed to on-lend foreign currency funds obtained under the FCNR(B) scheme to the domestic market. They were also allowed to take cross-currency positions in their foreign exchange holdings, subject to certain conditions. November 9. FIIs were allowed to invest up to 100% of their funds in corporate debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of April 30, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Indonesia is the rupiah. Two commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined by Bank Indonesia (BI) under a system of managed float, under which the bank announces a daily "conversion rate band" (for official trans- actions with foreign exchange banks, government, as well as with supranational institu- tions), and an "intervention band" consisting of buying and selling rates that are computed on the basis of a basket of currencies. The conversion rates are set so that the buying and selling rates are within 2% of the previous day's closing spot market rate. The spread of the intervention band was increased on June 13, 1996, to Rp 118 (5%) from Rp 66, and to Rp 192 (approximately 8%) on September 10, 1996. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. No. No. Forward and swap transactions are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between the BI and the banks concerned. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There are countertrade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored con- struction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 m i l l ion. In general, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. However, the Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the authority to institute regulations re- garding commercial offshore borrowing. International security restrictions Restrictions against Israel are in place. In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Restrictions against countries on which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of the BI. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of Rp 25 p e r $ l. Travelers may take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 50,000 a person; repatria- tion in excess of this amount requires prior approval from the BI or must be done through specified banks. Travelers may bring in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 50,000 a person; repatria- tion in excess of this amount requires prior approval from the BI or must be done through specified banks. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Requirements in general are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. However, a 100% face value of red clause letters of credit (LCs) and advance payments should be guaranteed. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Cement-asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Imports are subject to preshipment inspection in the exporting country by agencies des- ignated by the government that bears inspection expenses. Following inspection, the PT Surveyor Indonesia in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 405 exporting country a survey report (LPS) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and esti- mated cost of the goods; the applicable tariff code; freight charges; import duties; and value-added taxes. The LPS must be sent by the agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened LCs or, for imports not covered by LCs, to the bank designated by the importer. In April 1997, the preshipment inspection was changed to inspection upon arrival, conducted by the customs. Customs is required to issue the LPS that was previ- ously issued by Surveyor Indonesia. Rules for import payments were revised on June 14, 1996: payments may now be under- taken using LCs opened at foreign exchange banks, as well as by other standard meth- ods. Payments must be due w i th in 360 days. Imports from Israel and the countries against which the United Nations has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain products. In addition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Trade (MOT) and of Industry. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including foodstuffs, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the MOT. The pro- curement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bever- ages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized importers that includes only Indonesian nationals, al- though foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own proj- ects. Although all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the nonresident license (also called general importer license). Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the AFTA and the WTO. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Import taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Petramina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and Dahana on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar. The mo- nopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importa- tion of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exporters (and export suppliers) may sell their export proceeds to the BI. Exporters may discount export drafts with a remaining maturity of between 30 and 720 days. The BI accepts 5 currencies for rediscount (U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, deutsche marks, Singa- pore dollars, and Netherlands guilders), and uses SIBOR as the floating reference rate. The discount rate for special exporters (textiles, textile products, shoes, electronics, timber, rattan products, and leather goods) was reduced from 1% above SIBOR to SIBOR, and for general exporters from SIBOR plus 2% to SIBOR plus 1%. Drafts can be rediscounted in rupiah or dollars. The discount facility for export drafts may be used by suppliers of export-related products. Based on local LCs, suppliers of export-related goods can seek bank drafts and sell them to the BI, provided their remaining maturity is between 30 and 90 days. The discount rate for bank drafts is the BI's 3-month money market securities' cut-off rate m inus 0.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 INDONESIA Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports with sight LC conditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Quality controls are also maintained on fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pep- per, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports to Israel and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits issued by the MOT. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the MOT in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertil- izer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stabil- ity sometimes leads to suspension of exports of various items in this category. Manioc may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products sub- ject to import quotas in the consumer countries may be exported only by approved tex- tile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. Export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 per cubic meter are applied to sawed and processed timber. Exports of logs are subject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 per cubic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The purchase of shares is limited to a maximum of 49% of total shares issued by an individual company listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. The Capital Market Act (1995) does not differentiate issuers by nationality. Both resi- dent or nonresident issuers have to comply with the public offering requirements, one of which is that issuers must be Indonesian legal entities. There is no explicit restriction on nonresidents on public offering of securities in the Indonesian market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 407 No restriction applies as long as the shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Ex- change. If those securities are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange, they initially should comply with the Capital Market Act and with the requirement on the maximum percentage of foreign ownership of shares. However, Indonesian companies do not issue shares but rather American depository receipts in the U.S. capital market and global depository receipts on the London Stock Exchange. These transactions are prohibited. Banks require approval from the COLT for issuance of instruments with maturities over 2 years or for amounts exceeding $20 million a year a creditor; however, total issuances should not exceed 30% of the bank's capital. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Derivative transactions other than those associated with foreign exchange and interest rates are prohibited. However, derivative transactions in equities are only allowed with prior permission from the BI on a case-by-case basis. Purchase abroad by residents Banks are obliged to enter into a written agreement with their clients and explain the risks involved. Losses over 10% of banks' capital must be reported to the BI. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents In general, there are no restrictions on the granting of credit by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. Resident entities, especially nonbank private sectors, may borrow from nonresidents; however, they have to submit periodic reports to the COLT of the BI on their borrow- ing. The fo l low ing are subject to authorization by the COLT: (1) borrowings related to development projects using nonrecourse, limited recourse, advance payment, trustee borrowing, leasing, and similar financing; (2) borrowings related to development projects with financing based on build-operate- transfer, build-and-transfer, and similar schemes; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company ( inc lud ing the State Bank of Pertamina), inc lud ing in the form of government equity participation, guarantee for provision of feed stock supply, and guarantee for products offtaker. In general, there are no restrictions on the granting of credit by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Banks are allowed to provide sureties and guarantees to nonresident entities only under the fo l low ing conditions: (1) when there is sufficient contraguarantee from bona fide overseas banks (excluding overseas branches from the relevant bank); and (2) when there is a cash deposit valued 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are restricted: (1) foreign investment companies in infrastructure projects such as seaports, generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for pub l ic use, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 INDONESIA telecommunications, shipping, airlines, potable water supply, public railways, and nu- clear electric power generation should be established by way of joint venture between foreign and Indonesian partners, and the share of Indonesian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, which means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign citizen and/or entities. However, some of the com- pany's shares must be sold to an Indonesian citizen and/or entities through direct place- ment and/or indirectly through the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownership of direct investments must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of production. For investments above $50 million, divestment of 50% must be com- pleted w i th in 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive preferential customs duty treatment for imports of required raw materials for the first 2 years of production activity. Raw mate- rials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to depre- ciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. According to Agrarian Law (1960), nonresidents are only allowed to buy land with the land title status "the right to use of land (HakPakai)" but since the land title of real estate in Indonesia is "the right to bu i ld on land (RGB)," they are not allowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inward direct investment in local real estate. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. COLT's prior approval is required before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Resident banks or credit institutions, specifically the ones that deal with international trade and finance activities, are allowed to borrow abroad w i th in limits. An annual borrowing ceiling is imposed by the BI for foreign commercial borrowing of more than 2 years' maturity. In addition, the prospective borrowers obtain COLT decisions for queu ing on the international capital market before soliciting for such borrowings. In addition, banks may receive foreign commercial borrowing with maturities of no more than 2 years on a bilateral basis without prior approval from the BI, but the banks should maintain the total amount of such borrowings to a maximum of 30% of their capital. Trade financing, such as issuance of LCs, red clause LCs, sup- plier's and buyer's credits with maturities not exceeding 1 year and amounts of less than $20 million, are not considered borrowings that require approval from the COLT. For- eign commercial borrowings received by financial institutions, such as leasing compa- nies, factoring companies, and consumer financing companies, may not exceed 5 times the company's net worth less its equity share. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans, or financial or commercial credits, in either rupiah or foreign exchange, to nonresidents, inc lud ing those with authorization from residents to obtain credit. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that 80% of the foreign exchange loans must be provided for export activity. Banks can also ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 409 purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the re- quirement that the securities must be investment grade and should not be issued by their groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regulations, namely the regulation on net open position (NOP) aimed at prudential control, with the limits as follows: the average of total NOP, both on and off balance sheet, in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital and the average NOP off balance sheet in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital. This is, however, limited by open position limits. Banks are free to set their interest rates on both deposits and loans. In the case of taxes, revenues gained from interest of nonresident deposit accounts are taxed at 20% or at a percentage stipulated on the Tax Agreement between the government of Indonesia and the government of a nonresident entity, while the revenues gained from interest of resi- dent deposit accounts are taxed at 15%. Foreign exchange banks are required to allocate at least 50% of all foreign exchange credits to export-oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits The limits are: Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad (1) the average total NOP, both on and off balance sheet, in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital; and (2) the average NOP off balance sheet in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital. Insurance and reinsurance companies licensed in Indonesia are not allowed to invest abroad except for private placement in companies conducting insurance business over- seas, such as insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance brokers, loss ad- justers, etc. Indonesian mutual funds are prohibited from investing abroad. Liabilities denominated in foreign currency of insurance and reinsurance companies exceeding assets denominated in foreign currency shall not be more than 10% of share- holders' equity. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign investors as a group may purchase up to 49% of the authorized and outstanding shares of an Indonesian company that has had a public offering. Exchange arrangements June 13. The intervention band was widened to Rp 118 (5%). Changes During 1996 Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds September JO. The intervention band was widened to Rp 192 (8%). June 14. Import payments were allowed using LCs opened in foreign exchange banks. Payments are due w i th in 360 days. December 31. The discount facility for export drafts was extended to suppliers of ex- port-related products and the discount rate was reduced. Exporters (and export suppli- ers) may sell their export proceeds to the BI. Exporters may discount export drafts with a remaining maturity of between 30 and 720 days. The BI accepts 5 currencies for redis- count (U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, deutsche marks, Singapore dollars, and Netherlands guilders), and uses SIBOR as the floating reference rate. The discount rate for special exporters (textiles, textile products, shoes, electronics, timber, rattan products, and leather goods) was reduced from 1% above SIBOR to SIBOR, and for general exporters from SIBOR plus 2% to SIBOR plus 1%. Drafts can be rediscounted in rupiah or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 INDONESIA dollars. Based on local LCs, suppliers of export-related goods can seek bank drafts and sell them to the BI, provided their remaining maturity is between 30 and 90 days. The discount rate for bank drafts is BI's 3-month money market securities cut-off rate minus 0.5%. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments April 30. Preshipment inspections were changed to inspections upon arrival to be con- ducted by customs. Customs is required to issue an LPS, which previously was done by Surveyor Indonesia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian rial. The exchange rate system consists of the fo l low ing rates: (1) the official rate, which is fixed at Rls 1,750 per $1, applies mainly to the imports of essential goods; and (2) the export rate, which is fixed at Rls 3,000 per $1 and applies to all other transactions. The exchange rates are set by Bank Markazi (BM). No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. All bilateral payment arrangements have been terminated, and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the ACU, also inc lud- ing Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, are required to be effected in AMUs; settlements with these countries are made every 2 months. Exchange control authority is vested in the BM. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce. External payments arrears have been reduced to about $200 million in December 1996 from $3.2 billion in March 1995, as a result of bilateral debt restructurings. n.a. n.a. Authority to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the BM. Exports of gold ingots, coins, or semifinished products are prohibited. Exports of finished articles may be effected in accordance with relevant regulations. Natural and juridical persons, in- cluding authorized banks, may import gold, platinum, and silver bu l l ion for commercial purposes, in accordance with the relevant regulations. Travelers may bring in jewelry up to a value equivalent to Rls 5 m i l l ion and may take out the entire value, provided that it is recorded on their passport. The importation of personal jewelry with a value exceed- ing this amount requires approval from the BM. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from the BM. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 200,000 in Iranian banknotes. Iranian nationals traveling abroad may export up to $1,000 for each individual passport or up to a maximum of $500 a person for group passports. Foreign exchange from foreign-currency-denominated accounts originating abroad and/or credit cards may be transferred by natural persons without any limitation. Resident Accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign nationals may open these accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange originating abroad and deposited in these accounts may be transferred abroad without limitations. Domestic currency accounts The balance of rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Requirements range from 15% to 100% depending on the creditworthiness of the cus- tomer and the type of goods. Yes. Yes. Imports through letters of credit (LCs) and bills of exchange are permitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import regulations distinguish between authorized, conditional, and prohibited goods. Authorized goods can be imported without restriction. Conditional goods can be im- ported under certain conditions. Clearance through customs is authorized upon presen- tation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals and imports by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 413 Ministry of the Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special permit. Negative list Imports from Israel are prohibited. Licenses with quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most imports are subject to an ad valorem commercial benefit tax in addition to any applicable customs duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters of non-oil goods are required to repatriate to the banking system 100% of their foreign exchange earnings upon settlement; 50% of earnings from industrial goods and 30% of earnings from other goods may be allocated to exporters for their imports. In September 1996, the period between the date on which goods are exported and the date on which foreign exchange earnings are repatriated to the banking sector was ex- tended to 8 months from 6 in the case of carpet exporters, and for other exporters it was increased to 5 months from 3 months. The list of import items that exporters could buy with the proportion of foreign exchange earnings that they are allowed to retain was expanded. Surrender requirements The ratios are the same as those for the repatriation requirement. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions is permitted. Yes. n.a. n.a. The Ministry of Commerce issues an overall export license for some goods, while for other goods, licenses are issued on a case-by-case basis. With quotas Licenses are issued on a case-by-case basis. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Freight charges may only be transferred through LCs up to a maximum of 30% of the f.o.b. value of goods. Only Iranian insurance companies may issue insurance policies for imports of goods. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Payment of administration charges can be made with BM permission. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Interest payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. The transfer of income in rials earned from ticket sales by foreign airline companies may be allowed at the official exchange rate by the BM. The limits are $1,000 a year for a person with an individual passport and $500 a person for those traveling with a group passport. In the case of travel to neighboring countries, the limits are $300 a year a person for individual passports and $150 a person for group passports. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Limits are set on an ad hoc basis; foreign exchange may be obtained at the official rate up to the amount specified by the Ministry of Health. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The amount of allowances varies according to the cost of living in the country of study. The limits are $1,517 a month a student, plus 60% for a spouse and 30% for each child, at the official exchange rate. In certain cases when this amount is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts to cover university fees and expenses may be allowed. For- eign exchange allowances at the official exchange rate are granted to students under scholarships in nonmedical fields with the approval of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education, and to those in the medical field, with the approval of the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Students without scholarships are allocated foreign exchange at the export rate upon evidence of acceptance by an institution and receipt of a tuition invoice. Yes. Yes. Payment of consulting/legal fees with the confirmation of the Bureau of Legal Services of Iran is permitted. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Republic of Iran (public sector) whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit up to 50% of their net salaries at the offi- cial export exchange rate, up to a maximum of $500 a month, with the prior approval of the BM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 4 15 Surrender requirements Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in instruments traded on the Teheran Stock Exchange, but the investment is not protected under the investment law. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on direct investment n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Outward direct investment Permitted with the confirmation of the High Council for Investment. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls are administered by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Tech- nical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance if the investment took place in accordance with the Law Concerning Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investment. The repatriation of capital is guaranteed with the approval of the Organization for In- vestment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the BM. Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1996 September 30. The period between the date on which goods are exported and the date on which foreign exchange earnings are repatriated to the banking sector was extended to 8 months from 6 months in the case of carpet exporters, and for other exporters, it was increased to 5 months from 3 months. September 30. The list of import items that exporters could buy with the proportion of foreign exchange earnings that they are allowed to retain was expanded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi dinar. The exchange rate system consists of 2 rates: (1) the official rate, which is fixed at ID 1,750 per $1, and applies mainly to the imports of essential goods; and (2) the export rate, which is fixed at ID 3,000 per $1 and applies to all other transactions. The Iraqi dinar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The exchange rates are set by the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the CBI. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the CBI and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor of the CBI. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade (MOT) formulates import policy and the annual import program. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that they declare it upon importation. Residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 5 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresi- dent Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought with them for personal use. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency ID 5 is the maximum amount allowed. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 417 Foreign currency n.a. On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Amounts up to ID 1,000 are allowed. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency), in unlimited amounts provided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from dec- laration. Resident Accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Resident Iraqis and resident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open for- eign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these ac- counts without restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Iraqis and nonresident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts without restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which involve current payment transactions, and special nonresident accounts, which involve capital transfer transactions. Balances on these accounts and any applicable interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been de- posited with licensed dealers within 3 months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year in 3 installments to cover personal expenses in their country of residence. Approval required n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 IRAQ Letters of credit n.a. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank provides foreign exchange upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license except in some instances, when refer- ence must be made to the CBI. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. n.a. n.a. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to im- port duty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes ac- cruing from the implementation of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exporters of 13 goods manufactured by firms in the public sector must repatriate 60% of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and surrender them within 2 months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in a foreign exchange account with the commercial banks for 3 years and use them to pay for licensed imports. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The MOT may prohibit the exportation of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. n.a. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for travel Quantitative limits All payments for invisibles require prior approval. Information on indicative limits and/or bona fide tests for all payments, as well as for quantitative limits for most trans- actions, is not available. Some limits are listed below. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for their exports. The basic allowance for travel to Arab and socialist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Tur- key is ID 300 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits IRAQ 419 Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as India, the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU, and countries in North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are nationals of Arab countries employed by the Ministry of Higher Education, and of scientific researchers and medical doctors, in accordance with the terms of their con- tracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with pub l ic institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 a person if not insured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled non- contractual workers employed in the nationalized sector by the government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer w i th in 3 months. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All capital transactions effected abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 IRAQ Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All investments effected abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural, and tourism sectors; participation is encouraged by the Arab Investment Law (1988). The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that their contribution and profits to be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer an- nually up to 100% of the profits distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of their paid-in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investments. Arab investors are allowed to trans- fer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank, or physical assets that w i ll be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Changes During 1995-96 [The IMF has not received from the authorities the information required for a descrip- tion of the exchange and trade system as of December 1995 and December 1996.] ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ireland is the Irish pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Ireland participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this mechanism, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. No. Yes. Restrictions were imposed on financial transfers in respect of Iraq in August 1990, and in respect of Libya in December 1993. Restrictions regarding Haiti were revoked in December 1994. Restrictions regarding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended in accordance with EC Regulation No. 2382/96, fo l low ing the passing of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074 of October 1995. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 422 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts blocked in accordance with UN sanctions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explo- sives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The EU system of customs duties applies to imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 423 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for some sectors subject to special conditions. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, individuals, and companies whose principal place of residence/registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Land Commission for permis- sion to purchase land. Such permission is rarely withheld. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Israel is the new sheqel (NIS) (plural new sheqalim). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed with regard to a basket of currencies comprising the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The market exchange rate fluctuates within margins of ± 7% around the midpoint rate in response to market forces and intervention policy. Since December 17, 1991, both the midpoint and the band have been adjusted daily, reflecting the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation of the main trading partners. The adjustment of the band has been 6% on an annual basis since July 26, 1993. No. No. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in futures and options, including traded contracts on foreign currencies, foreign interest rates, commodities, and security prices by both resident companies and individuals, are allowed. However, resident firms may only enter into such contracts in order to cover commercial risks arising from permitted transactions. Transactions in commodities may only be entered into in order to cover risks, and transactions, other than in traded con- tracts, must be carried out in conjunction with an authorized dealer bank or, through it, against a foreign bank or broker. Forward transactions in new sheqalim may only be conducted for hedging purposes, provided that the transaction is carried out with an authorized dealer in foreign exchange and up to a period of 1 month. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. No. Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange; it is ad- ministered by the Bank of Israel (BOI) in cooperation with other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks that are permitted to deal in foreign ex- change. Other institutions (e.g., security brokers and foreign exchange dealers) may obtain a limited license to deal in foreign exchange. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency ISRAEL 425 Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bu l l ion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. Resident travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer at the port of departure foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency on presentation of documents showing the previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 a person over 18 years and $2,000 a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than 2 weeks dur ing the visit does not affect the person's right). Only commer- cial banks are authorized to export foreign currency to foreign banks. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically There are two main types of accounts: (1) Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts (PAMAH). The period dur ing which foreign currency may be held in a resident transferred position (PAMAH) is 30 days. Export proceeds and unilateral transfers directly received from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 6% for a current account and 3% for a time deposit account with a maturity of up to 1 year, and zero for a time deposit account with a maturity exceeding 1 year. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These accounts may be held only by recipients of restitution payments or certain disability pensions. The liquidity re- quirement for these accounts is the same as the above. Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for additional travel allowances; and (2) Exempt Resident Deposit Accounts. Certain residents (mostly immigrants) may de- posit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. In addition, a resident may open a deposit account linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of at least 1 month. Certain residents (mostly immigrants) may hold accounts abroad. Prior approval is required. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Account holders may freely effect transfers from their foreign currency account and may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the market exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of convertible local currency accounts by non- residents; funds in these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, inc lud ing transfers between nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 ISRAEL Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Deposits linked to foreign currency or the CPI are not convertible. Prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Imports and Import Payments Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within 1 year are allowed. On April 1, 1996, the reporting requirement for the advance payment for imports and for transit and brokerage transactions of up to $5,000 was eliminated. In addition, the amount that an authorized dealer may transfer abroad on the basis of a supplier's invoice or written quotation was raised to $5,000 from $3,000. On February 9, 1997, the follow- up and reporting requirements for sums of up to $10,000 were eliminated for advance payment of imports and for transit and brokerage transactions. Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit) are pre- sented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of suppliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds in foreign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of exportation. Proceeds may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to authorized banks. However, ex- porters may retain in a bank account abroad up to 10% of export proceeds received over the previous 12-month period and use the funds to pay for imports and other authorized payments abroad. In cases where the exporter is a firm with limited liabilities, the amount allowed to be deposited in a bank account abroad is also part of the overall limit on the portfolio investment abroad of the firm. For inputs directly imported by an ex- porter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. On February 9, 1997, exporters were permitted to deposit in a bank abroad proceeds received from a financial institution abroad against the discounting of notes. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment re- quire licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 427 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, con- sulting and legal fees, pensions, or on interest, nor on remittances of profits and d iv i- dends or gambling and prize earnings. The limit is $7,000 a person a trip in cash, traveler's checks, and cash withdrawals on credit cards. Indicative limits/bona fide test Additional cash allowances may be granted on request. Residents holding PAMAH restitution accounts may withdraw an additional amount of $1,800. Medical costs Quantitative limits A resident who requires hospitalization abroad is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, he or she is permitted to pay the remainder of expenses on submission of receipts. Indicative limits/bona fide test On February 9, 1997, documentation requirements to purchase foreign exchange were liberalized. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The exchange allowance for students studying at institutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. On February 9, 1997, advance trans- fers of the exchange allowance for students were permitted for up to 1 year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Residents may make support or g ift remittances of up to $2,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is limited to the purchase of tourist services abroad. Since April 1, 1996, the annual l im it for credit card payments abroad for imports of goods and services was raised to $5,000 from $1,500. Residents, wh i le in Israel, are permitted to make credit card payments abroad of up to $10,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit for cash withdrawals is $7,000 a trip. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in general, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. For 30 years after entering Israel, immi- grants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to author- ized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 ISRAEL Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are in accordance with general rules pertaining to the use of foreign currency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase any security traded on the stock exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Proceeds may be freely transferred. Households may purchase freely securities abroad, provided they are issued by a gov- ernment. The business sector may purchase securities abroad under the same conditions as households but with a limit of up to 5% of sales or 10% of capital. All transactions and transfer of funds abroad should be conducted through an authorized dealer in for- eign exchange (usually a bank). The proceeds of these issues must usually be transferred to Israel. Special permits are provided for holding the issues abroad. The transfer of funds required to service security issues is allowed. Nonresidents may purchase money market instruments traded on the stock exchange (such as treasury bills). Households may purchase freely money market instruments that are traded on an ex- change abroad. The business sector may purchase market instruments abroad with a limit set as a percentage of sales or capital. Residents may issue money market instruments that are traded on an exchange abroad. The proceeds of these issues must usually be transferred to Israel; however, special permits for holding these proceeds abroad are granted to all issuers. The transfer of funds required to service security issues is allowed. Nonresidents may purchase certificates of participation in mutual funds. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase certificates of deposit in provident funds. The sale or issue of collective instrument securities on local markets is allowed, pro- vided that the securities are traded on the stock market. However, the issue of such se- curities requires authorization from the authorities. Households may buy certificates of participation in mutual funds that are either traded on an exchange or authorized by the appropriate authority in the issuing country. The business sector may purchase such certificates with a limit. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of collective instrument securities abroad by residents is not allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase derivatives and other securities abroad. However, the business sector is restricted to hedging, while households may purchase for both hedging and for speculation. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits may be granted up to a period of 1 year. In the case of capital goods, long-term credit may also be granted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 429 Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Nonbanks are generally not allowed to grant financial credit to nonresidents. However, an Israeli company may grant financial credit to its subsidiary abroad, provided the par- ent company holds at least 5% of the equity of its subsidiary. An Israeli company in which a nonresident holds at least 75% of the shares may grant credit to the nonresident, with a permit, up to the amount of the equity held by this nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Direct loans from nonresidents to Israeli residents are not restricted. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment A resident may provide sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to a nonresi- dent if they are related to a permitted transaction. Guarantees may also be granted to an agent in an export transaction. Only active incorporated Israeli companies are permitted to undertake direct investment abroad (e.g., in subsidiaries and real estate) without any quantitative l im it on the size of the investment, provided that the investment does not amount to more than 10% of the company's equity or 5% of its sales turnover, whichever is larger. On April 1, 1996, direct investment abroad by foreign subsidiaries of Israeli companies was liberalized. On February 9, 1997, emigrants were permitted to transfer abroad up to 20% of their assets. Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of equity capital or shareholders' loans may be granted preferential tax treatment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds may be repatriated if the original source of the investment was foreign cur- rency or a nonresident local currency account. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only the business sector is permitted to conduct these transactions. Ind iv idua ls are not allowed to make such investments, except for the purchase of a time-share un it not ex- ceeding $15,000. Proceeds may be repatriated if the original source of the investment was foreign cur- rency or a nonresident local currency account. Resident "authorized dealer banks" are free to borrow abroad in the form of nonresident accounts or loans from foreign banks. In addition, they may issue securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealer banks are free to grant loans, inc lud ing financial credits denominated in foreign or local currency. They may purchase fixed-income securities abroad. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad The same reserve ratios apply to bank accounts held by both residents and nonresidents denominated in foreign or local currency. However, interest is paid only on reserve re- quirements that are due to nonresident foreign currency accounts. All foreign currency accounts are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, half of which must be de- posited with the BOI in an interest-generating account. The size of the limit for each bank is a proportion of the bank's equity (with a minimum position size granted to small banks). The limits are applied on the basis of weekly averages. Regular mutual funds may invest up to 10% of their assets in securities abroad. Special mutual funds intended for investment abroad may invest up to 50% of their assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 ISRAEL abroad. Mutual funds intended for nonresidents may invest up to 75% of their assets abroad. Provident funds may invest up to 2% of their assets abroad in recognized for- eign securities. Pension funds and insurance companies are not allowed to invest abroad. Income and profits earned in foreign currency by institutional investors from these in- vestments, including capital gains, are taxed at the rate of 35%. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally n.a. Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign underwriters must comply with the same criteria as those that apply to domestic underwriters, as stated by the Securities Law. Resident accounts Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 January 4. Incoming and outgoing tourist foreign currency deposits were consolidated as one "travel agent deposit." The regulations that applied to the separate deposits apply to the consolidated one. April 1. The reporting requirement for advance payment of imports and for transit and brokerage transactions of up to $5,000 was eliminated. April L The amount that an authorized dealer may transfer abroad on the basis of a supplier's invoice or written quotation was raised to $5,000 from $3,000. July 7. Electronic payments in foreign currency for imports were liberalized. Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers April L The annual limit for credit card payments abroad for the import of goods or services was raised to $5,000 from $1,500. Capital transactions February 7. Uniform rules were set for the purchasing and selling of foreign securities traded abroad and on the Tel Aviv Securities Exchange (TASE). Foreign securities pur- chased with local currency are registered in the name of the authorized dealer and de- posited in a custody deposit account in the name of the nonresident. April L Individual residents were permitted to purchase a time-share unit abroad with a maximum limit of $15,000. April L Nonresidents were permitted to repurchase foreign currency that was transferred for investment purposes (purchase of an asset in Israel) directly from abroad. April 1. The definition of Israeli securities was expanded to include the redeemable shares of an Israeli company (e.g., a preference share that may be redeemed) and the right or warrant that grants the right to purchase such shares. Thus, nonresidents were permitted to purchase such securities and deposit the income from them and the pro- ceeds from their sale in a nonresident deposit account, provided they are bought with funds from a nonresident deposit. April 1. Direct investment abroad by foreign subsidiaries of Israeli companies was liberalized. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds February 9. The follow-up and reporting requirements for sums of up to $10,000 were eliminated for advance payment of imports and for transit and brokerage transactions. February 9. Exporters were permitted to deposit in a bank abroad proceeds received from a financial institution abroad against the discounting of notes. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 9. Documentation requirements to obtain a travel allowance were liberalized. Advance transfers of the exchange allowance for students were permitted for up to 1 year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions February 9. Emigrants were permitted to transfer abroad up to 20% of their assets. ISRAEL 431 February 9. Residents were permitted to deposit in a resident foreign currency deposit account a loan in foreign currency received from a nonresident or from an authorized dealer bank, as well as the proceeds from selling foreign securities or income from them, even if the security was purchased with local currency. February 9. Residents were permitted to purchase abroad any security for which a price is published by an international quoting agency in accordance with the list determined by the Controller of Foreign Exchange (e.g., Reuter's, Bloomberg, etc.), irrespective of the stock market on which the security is traded. They may also purchase a new foreign security, at offering, if that agency has made information about the offering available. February 9. A foreign company registered in Israel was permitted to export profits ac- crued from its activities in Israel upon termination of these activities, subject to the conditions set forth by the Comptroller of Foreign Currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Italy is the Italian lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Italy rejoined the ERM of the EMS on November 25, 1996. The arrangement implies that the Bank of Italy (BOI) stands ready to buy or sell currencies of the other participat- ing states in un l im i ted amounts at specified intervention rates. In principle, interventions w i th in the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. No. No. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the inter- play of market forces. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Tri- este and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (BOI, authorized banks, and the Postal Administration) or directly, by drawing on external accounts or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Ex- change Office on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 m i l l ion by f i l l ing out a foreign exchange statistical return. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect to Iraq, Libya, and the movement UNITA in Angola. 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears No. ITALY 433 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for indus- trial purposes. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, including coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are unrestricted. Imports gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19%. Residents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country Italian or foreign banknotes and bearer securities of any denomination up to the equivalent of Lit 20 mil- lion. For fiscal and anti-money-laundering purposes, transfers exceeding this amount must be carried out through authorized intermediaries. Residents are allowed to enter and leave the country carrying securities denominated in lire or in foreign currencies worth Lit 20 million, provided that they are not bearer securities and that they are de- clared to customs. Nonresidents may take up to Lit 20 million in banknotes and securities of any denomi- nation into and out of Italy without formalities. If they bring in banknotes and securities in an amount in excess of Lit 20 million, they must declare the excess amount to cus- toms on a special form upon entering Italy. Nonresidents may reexport larger sums but only up to the amount in excess of Lit 20 million that they have imported and declared. No l im it applies to exports of nonbearer securities; nonresidents need only submit the above-mentioned form to customs. The limitations described above do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or beneficiaries. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 ITALY Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts that have been blocked in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are governed by EU regulations according to which imports of most products, except for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricul- tural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regu- lated, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to non-EU countries are free, with the exception of high-technology products included in EC Regulation No. 3381/94 and of oil extracted from the seabed, which are subject to ministerial authorization. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 435 Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On collective investment securities Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The pub l ic offer ing in Italy of securities issued by mutual funds that are not covered by EU directives is subject to authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits A capital ratio of 8% of the position applies. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition At least 80% of liabilities in any currency must be matched with assets in the same cur- rency, except if the assets to be held in that currency do not exceed 7% of total assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Arrangements for payments and receipts November 25. Italy rejoined the ERM of the EMS with a central rate of Lit 1,906 to the ECU. November 4. According to UN Security Resolution No. 1074, Italy lifted restrictions imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if icat ion Independent floating The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar is determined in the interbank market. The for- eign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, cambios, and the Bank of Jamaica (B J). The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Cambios are required to sell to the BJ a prescribed m in imum amount of foreign exchange that they have purchased. Excess foreign exchange may be sold with- out restrictions to the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the general pub- lic. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the BJ. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market The market is currently inactive. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an external ac- count or a foreign currency account. Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. Jamaica is a member of CARICOM. The clearing arrangements w i th in the framework of CARICOM have been suspended since November 1, 1990. The BJ no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commer- cial banking sector in convertible currencies. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Trading in foreign exchange, except by and through an authorized dealer, is prohibited. The Minister of Finance (MOF) has the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, or holding of gold for numismatic or industrial purposes. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 437 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Funds on these accounts ("A" accounts) may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. In cases when the transferee is a bank, licensed deposit-taking institution, credit union, bu i ld ing society, cambio operator, un it trust, or pension fund, the acquisi- tion of the foreign currency must be in accordance with directions issued by the MOF. External accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts ("B" accounts) are exempt from tax on interest earned, provided that deposits are held as certificates of deposit with at least a 1-year maturity. After September 22, 1991, new B accounts were not permitted to be opened. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted A accounts held by nonresidents are subject to the same regulations applied to those accounts held by residents, but nonresidents may open tax-free foreign currency A ac- counts. All credits to these accounts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from the local purchase of foreign exchange. Domestic currency accounts Same regulations as for accounts held by residents apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. No. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger pub l ic health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Board, which is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles require a permit for gov- ernment statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the BJ. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 25% in compliance with the CET ar- rangement of CARICOM. Some agricultural products are subject to stamp duties of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 JAMAICA Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Most goods may be exported without restriction. However, specific licenses are required for exports of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to ministerial approval; a prospectus is required under the Companies Act. For banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds, the purchase must be in accordance with direc- tions issued by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases apply. On collective investment securities Ministerial approval is required for banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, bu i ld ing societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 439 Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There is a cash reserve requirement of 20% for foreign currency deposits and of 25% for domestic currency deposits. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 40% for assets in foreign currency compared to 47% for domestic currency assets. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Mutual funds schemes must be approved by the Securities Commission. Limits (min .) on portfolio invested locally The m i n im um to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance shall not exceed 70% of the domestic liabilities of the company. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking institutions are liable to be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonresident companies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give in- vestment advice. The nonresident company must be owned, controlled, or supervised by persons who are citizens of, and are actually residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM state as may be prescribed. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: Apr il 1, 1964. Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supply and demand. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly condi- tions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transac- tions are based on free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) acting as the government's agent. Most of the authority for ve r i fy ing normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Imports from, and exports to, Iraq and L ibya require permission from the MITI. For transactions that invo lve payments from Japan to residents of Iraq and Libya or by resi- dents of these countries to foreign countries through Japan, permission from the MOF is required. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola requires permission from the MITI. All other payments for invisibles from Japan to residents of Iraq and Libya require permission from the MITI. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic banknotes exceeding ¥5 m i l l ion requires ministerial approval. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad JAPAN 441 Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. Overseas deposits by residents up to the equivalent of ¥200 m i l l ion are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, and securities are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Yes. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. The Import Restriction System covers 77 items (4-digit Harmonized Commodity De- scription and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions fa l l ing under the state trading, national security, pub l ic health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authorization from the MITI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, ind iv id- ual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open accounts or those invo lv ing pay- ments made more than 2 years before import declaration or after more than 2 years of shipment) require authorization from the MITI. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 JAPAN Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ i remen ts Surrender requ i remen ts F inanc ing requ iremen ts Documen ta t ion requ i remen ts Export licenses No. No. No. No. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1995, 27 export cartels were operating under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were subject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exportation to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods de- scribed above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require ind iv idual licenses. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money ma r- ket in s t rum en ts On capital market securities Capital Transactions Capital transactions, in principle, can be conducted freely unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior ap- proval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the MOF or the MITI may request or order that the transaction be suspended or modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolios may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yen-denominated securities and yen-related dual currency bonds issued abroad cannot be resold to Japanese residents un t il after the expiration of a 40-day waiting period. Purchase abroad by residents Prior notification is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issue of securities abroad by residents is subject to prior notification with a 20-day waiting period. Controls on derivatives and other in s t rum en ts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment JAPAN 443 Loans are subject to pr ior notice w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. Transactions requ ir ing prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the MOF if, in the M in is ter's op in ion, the transaction m ight adversely affect (1) in- ternational f inanc ial markets or Japan's international credit standing; (2) domestic and financial capital markets; (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy; and (4) implementation of Japan's inter- national agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of pub l ic or- der. The MOF may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consideration is deemed w i thout adverse consequences. The provisions apply to (1) majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations; (2) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (3) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company ( inc lud ing ind iv idual companies for wh ich the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made pub l ic by the Securi- ties Dealers Association) that reach 10% or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (4) acquisition of loans of more than 1 -year maturity or securities pr iva te ly placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign owner- ship is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Foreign investors are required to report investments only after undertaking them unless concerns arise about adverse implications for national security, pub l ic order, pub l ic safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or the maintenance of mu tual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries, in which cases requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange There is (1) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign-currency- denominated bonds, excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents, equ iva lent to 30% of their net worth; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign- currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice w i th a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long- term basis overseas. This lend ing requires permission, except when the lender is an authorized foreign ex- change bank. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchase of these securities from a resident requires permission, but purchase from non- residents is subject to pr ior notification. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad The l im i ts are (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies ho ld ing securities issued by nonresidents; (2) the same ratio applies to purchases of foreign-currency- denominated assets; (3) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for ho ld ing by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds; and (4) 30% of pension trust assets for for- eign-currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds (for the new money de- posited from Ap r il 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ce i l ing was raised to 50% on the basis of each ins t i tu t ional account, and the ce i l ing for fore ign-aff i l ia ted compa- nies was raised to 70%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 JAPAN Other controls imposed by securities Yes. laws Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts November L Restrictions in accordance with UN Security Council sanctions were lifted with regard to imports from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro); and for transactions that involve payments for in- visibles to residents of, and exports to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). April 1. The amount of overseas deposits by residents, which are not restricted, was raised to ¥200 m i l l ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan dinar. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate but are available to residents, nonresidents, and domestic numismatists. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Jordan dinar is officially pegged to the SDR, but in practice it has been pegged to the U.S. dollar since late 1995. A fee of 0.1% may be levied by the CBJ on foreign cur- rency transfers. Amounts transferred from customers' deposits in foreign currency, as well as transfers made by governmental entities, diplomatic missions, and nonprofit and humanitarian organizations are exempt from this fee as are amounts less than JD 300. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Licensed banks may buy foreign currencies without l im it against the Jordan dinar from their customers on a forward deal basis, and they may sell foreign currencies against the Jordan dinar to their customers on a forward deal basis to pay for imports into Jordan. For corporations or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the CBJ may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative There is an arrangement with the Repub l ic of Yemen. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the CBJ. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Supply, Agriculture, and Health. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Imports of gold in any form are permitted w i thout the prior approval of the CBJ. Ex- ports of gold are allowed, subject to repatriation requirements. Nonresidents are also permitted to take gold out of Jordan if they o r ig ina l ly brought it into Jordan or its for- eign currency equ iva len t. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 JORDAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of up to JD 5,000 are allowed. Nonresidents may take out up to the amount they declared on entry. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Individuals may maintain foreign currency accounts at licensed banks. Juridical persons may also open foreign currency accounts, provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. Excess amounts must be sold for Jordan dinars to licensed banks or the CBJ. Withdrawals and transfers from such accounts for current payments are free of restrictions. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened with proof of nonresidency. Withdrawals and transfers from these accounts are free of restrictions. Withdrawals and transfers from these accounts are free of restrictions provided that deposits are made from the sources identified in the application approved by the CBJ. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accoun ts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits There is no legal requirement for advance import deposits; banks are free to set the per- centage of advance import deposits they collect from customers against letters of credit (LCs) for imports at their discretion. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Licenses are not required except for goods on the negative list. The list includes imports from countries that have bilateral agreements with Jordan and imports by certain institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 447 Import taxes and/or tar iffs Customs duties are levied at one single rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly Oil imports are conducted by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Without quotas No. No. No. No. Licenses for exports are not required except for exports to countries that have bank ing arrangements with Jordan. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, and administrative expenses, or on commissions, interest payments and remit- tances of profits and dividends. Payments for travel, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, and the use of credit cards abroad require prior approval and are subject to a l im it of JD 35,000 a year; no l im i ts are imposed if transfers are made from foreign currency accounts held by nonresidents. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Outward transfers of capital by residents require approval and are not norma l ly permitted. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may use convertible currencies to purchase Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars. Proceeds from redemption at maturity, inc lud ing interest, are transferable in any conver t ib le currency. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 JORDAN Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Licensed banks and financial companies may extend credit facilities in Jordan dinars to residents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits. The amounts of credit facilities extended to nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits should not exceed 5% of total credit granted by a bank or a financial company. Furthermore, the balance of the foreign currency deposit used as collateral against the extended credit facilities should not, at any time, be less than the outstanding balance of credit facilities. Effective January 20, 1996, the CBJ excluded loans extended to finance the export sec- tor from its prior approval requirements, leaving such loans to be decided upon freely by licensed banks, provided that banks continue to comply with CBJ prudential requirements. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. The CBJ may grant permission to banks; insurance companies; contractors; and indus- trial, agricultural, trade, and tourist firms to transfer funds abroad for specified invest- ments or operating purposes. The transfer of funds for purposes of investment in Arab countries is permitted only if mutual treatment or bilateral agreements exist between Jordan and the country. It is the investor's responsibility to provide foreign exchange to finance such investments. Inward direct investment Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks are permitted to invest abroad up to 50% of their foreign exchange holdings. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 449 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange n.a. Resident accounts Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 October 29. Resident Jordanians were allowed to maintain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan without any l im i t. October 29. Resident accounts in foreign currencies were treated on equal footing w i th nonresident accounts in foreign currencies with respect to current payments. October 29. Banks were permitted to manage portfolios in foreign currencies for resi- dent accounts on the same basis applied to nonresident accounts. October 29. The rules governing foreign currency margin trading for nonresident ac- counts and resident accounts in foreign currencies were un if ied. January 20. The CBJ excluded loans extended to finance the export sector from its prior approval requirements, leaving such loans to be decided upon freely by licensed banks, provided that the banks continue to comply with CBJ prudential requirements. October 29. Restrictions were l if ted on payments for invisibles (from accounts in for- eign currencies) to residents who have resident accounts in foreign currencies. October 29. The CBJ authorized licensed banks to conduct asset swap operations for holders of foreign currency accounts w i thout the approval of the CBJ. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 16, 1996. Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the tenge. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The official exchange rates of the tenge against the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, and the Russian ruble are determined once a week on the basis of rates in the foreign ex- change interbank and exchange bureau markets, and are announced each Monday by the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK). Official rates for more than 30 other currencies are set on the basis of cross rates in international markets. The currency market includes the interbank currency exchange, which conducts daily trading in online mode using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter interbank market, and a network of ex- change bureaus handling cash foreign exchange transactions. Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. Banks can also trade in an over-the-counter interbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are more than 2,000 exchange bureaus that conduct foreign exchange cash transactions. No. No. Foreign exchange futures are quoted at the Kazakh Stock Exchange and the Interna- tional Kazakh Agroindustrial Exchange. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions between residents must be effected in tenge, unless otherwise stipulated by law. Transactions between residents and nonresidents can be made in any currency as long as they comply with the relevant foreign exchange regulations of the NBK. The NBK has the right to impose restrictions on the payment currency for a resident's export operations. Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU are made through a system of correspondent accounts of the NBK and commercial banks. The NBK controls exchange transactions, supervises authorized banks, regulates open foreign exchange positions, and has the authority to reintroduce surrender requirements. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) supervises licensing of a limited number of imports and exports, monitors transactions in precious metals and stones, monitors capital transac- tions (i.e., external debt), and supervises the payment of export and import duties. Authorized banks and nonbank financial institutions are agents for foreign exchange control. Internat ional security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 451 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade All gold produced from Kazakh raw materials must first be offered on the primary mar- ket, where the NBK and the MOF have the first right to sell and buy. Thereafter, the gold can be sold on the secondary market, inc lud ing international markets. Licensed banks and other ju r id ical persons are allowed to participate in the primary market. Me- morial and jub i lee coins produced from precious metals are regulated by currency regulations. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports A declaration is required upon exit. Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Documents cer t ify ing the legal or ig in of funds are required when exporting more than $10,000. On imports A declaration is required upon entry. Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. A license from the NBK is required. Accounts may be denominated in foreign or do- mestic currency. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inan c ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Prepayment before 180 days requires pr ior registration w i th the NBK. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presentation to an authorized bank of the relevant contract, agreement, or accord is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 KAZAKHSTAN Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses are required for 11 categories of goods. Two categories of goods are subject to restrictions for pub l ic health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Customs duties and excises are levied on imported goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repa tr ia t ion requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds must be repatriated, unless a license is granted by the NBK. Transfers of foreign currency to accounts of authorized banks must be done w i th in 10 days of the date payment is made. The NBK has the right to introduce a surrender requirement at any time. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection There is selective independent inspection of exports. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes A negative list based on security reasons requires export licenses for 17 commodity groups. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Bona fide tests are applied to all payments. Freight/insurance Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits A max imum of 95% of the amount of the transaction may be reinsured abroad. There are country-specific limits for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test For amounts exceeding $10,000, a document certifying the legal origins of the funds is required. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval An NBK license is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 453 Gambling/prize earnings Indicative limits/bonafide test The legal origin of funds must be documented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds should be repatriated, unless the NBK grants a license. Capital Transactions Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Registration with the NBK is required for credits with a maturity of more than 180 days. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents A license is required for operations with a maturity of more than 180 days invo lv ing foreign exchange values. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBK is required for credits with a ma tur i ty of more than 180 days. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Residents must obtain a license from the NBK to invest abroad. Inward direct investment Prior registration w i th the NBK is requ ired. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by residents A license f rom the NBK is required. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Registration w i th the NBK is requ ired. Sale locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the NBK is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 KAZAKHSTAN Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the NBK is required to receive credits for a term of more than 180 days. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A license from the NBK is required when extending credits in foreign currency for a term of more than 180 days. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The open position in any one currency is limited to 30% of a bank's capital, and the total open position is limited to 50% of a bank's capital. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws A license is required for professional activities on the securities market and stock exchanges. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement July 16. Kazakhstan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 3. Precious metals offered for sale at primary market trading sessions that are not sold were permitted to be sold on the secondary market or exported abroad. December 24. The Law on Foreign Exchange Regulation was passed. Nonresident accounts February 1. Limitations imposed on the use of proceeds of current international trans- actions deposited in certain "T" accounts were removed. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds February 1. Transfer of funds from "I" accounts in bank deposits, deposit certificates of banks, bonds ( inc lud ing government bonds), and other types of debt obligations was permitted. February 1. Limitations on the making of pre- and postdelivery import payments were removed. August 15. Independent preshipment inspection of goods exported from the Republic of Kazakhstan was abolished, and selective independent inspection of export contracts was instituted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kenya is the Kenya sh i l l ing. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign traveler's checks. The official exchange rate is set at the prev ious day's average market rate. The U.S. do l lar is the pr inc ipal intervention currency. The off ic ial exchange rate applies only to government and government- guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank Act gives the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Kenya is negotiating to reschedu le arrears amoun t ing to $62 m i l l ion that accrued to commercial banks pr ior to end-1993. Yes. No. No. Resident Accounts J u r i d i c al and na tural persons are e l ig ib l e. Yes. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 456 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requ irements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. A copy of the import declaration, a f inal invoice, and a copy of the customs entry must be submitted. The inspection is required for all imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $1,000. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price, and require a clean report of findings. On August 19, 1996, banks were allowed to use their discretion to effect clean payments (for imports) provided they obtain an undertaking from the importer to submit the documents later. The list includes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported on ly if a sales contract is regis- tered w i th the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Author- ity, respectively. Exports of certain foods and agricultural products require special licenses to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of minerals, pre- cious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 457 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these paymen ts No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase a maximum of 40% of shares of primary or sec- ondary issues. A nonresident cannot purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or primary issues. There is no control on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, issuance of se- curities by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issuance of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior approval by the CBK. On collective investment securities The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK's approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK's approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 KENYA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure is limited to a maximum of 20% of paid-up capital (assigned). Foreign exchange exposure is defined as net foreign assets reported on the balance sheet. Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 19. Commercial banks were required to complete the CBK statistical forms for all foreign exchange transactions above $10,000 (or equivalent). Changes During 1996 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments August 19. Foreign currency accounts were permitted to be opened by residents. August 19. Nonresidents were allowed to open foreign currency accounts. July 1. The m in imum value of imports subject to preshipment inspection was raised to an f.o.b. value of $1,000 from $500. August 19. Banks were allowed to use their discretion to effect clean payments (for im- ports) provided they obtain an undertaking from the importer to submit the documents later. August 19. Goods purchased by importers in Kenya no longer need to be insured with companies licensed to conduct business in Kenya. Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers June 19. Exportation and importation of local and foreign currency notes exceeding $5,000 (K Sh 300,000) were required to be declared to customs for statistical purposes. Cap ital transact ions August 19. Reporting requirements for exportation/importation of local and foreign currency notes were removed. August 19. Details of outward investment transactions in amounts of the equivalent of $500,000 and above were required to be reported to the CBK for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of K i r iba ti is the Australian dollar. K ir iba ti coins are also in c ircu la t ion. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged There is no central monetary institution and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of K ir iba ti (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes da i ly rates for 15 currencies on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Blocked accounts Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in Australian currency or in any other currency. Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken w i th the BOK, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 KIRIBATI Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repa tr ia t ion requirements Surrender requ irements F inan c ing requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. n.a. Imports of certain goods are prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. n.a. n.a. Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. n.a. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Copra, a dried coconut meat that produces coconut oil, can be exported only through the K ir iba ti Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Contro ls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Surrender requ irements No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment The authorities encourage investments in the export-promoting or import-substituting sectors. All applications for foreign investment up to $A 250,000 must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission for approval. Applications with a larger capital contri- bu t ion are approved by the Cabinet. Changes During 1996 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Korea is the won. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the won against the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for the won-dollar spot transactions of the prev ious day. During each business day, the won rate against the dollar in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within margins of ±2.25% against the market average rate of the previous day. No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between the won and foreign curren- cies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts in respect of interbank transactions; however, the terms of forward contracts between foreign ex- change banks and nonbank customers must be based on a bona fide transaction. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency except the won. Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For this purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for current transac- tions as well as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic stocks. No. No. The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) initiates policy with respect to pre- scription of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes most of the above func t ions; it also regulates the operations of the exchange market and may intervene in it. No. No. Residents are allowed to import and export gold other than gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regu la t ions as those app l ied to merchandise trade (Foreign Trade Act). 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Banknotes in excess of W 8 million may not be exported without permission from the BOK. Banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 may not be exported without specific permission. Upon leaving Korea, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency up to the amount they have sold during their stay in Korea. The importation of Korean currency in excess of W 8 m i l l ion is restricted. Residents and nonresidents must register domestic or foreign currency they bring into Korea at a customs office if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed without restriction. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without a quantitative ceiling. General corporations and individuals are permit- ted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 m i l l ion and $50,000 a year, respectively. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Remittances from these accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and with- drawals of foreign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Under the Imports Diversification Program introduced to promote a geographically balanced import structure, there are 152 items for which imports are restricted; the pro- gram is to be abolished by the end of 1999. Yes. All imports require licenses, but for most imports licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into 2 categories: automatic approval items and restricted items. As ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 463 of Ju ly 1, 1996, 81 of the 10,859 basic items on the Harmonized System were classified as restricted imports. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are no rma l ly approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to have exported and/or imported a m in i- mum value of $500,000 in any 1 of the last 2 calendar years. Of the 81 items restricted under the GATT balance of payments provision, 73 items are scheduled to be liberalized by 1997. However, quantitative restrictions w i ll be applied for rice, subject to Annex 5 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. A trade commission may recommend quotas and quality standards if it has determined that certain imports have harmed domestic industries. Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings exceeding $50,000 must be repatriated to Korea w i th in 6 months, ex- cept in specific cases. However, general trading companies licensed under the Foreign Trade Act and enterprises whose trade value in the previous year exceeded $5 m i l l ion are allowed to retain overseas deposits up to 50% of this value w i th in the l im it of $500 m i l l ion. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are 2 agricultural and fishery products and 8 indus tr ial products currently subject to voluntary export restraints. There are quotas under the ATC and other bilateral agreements. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, profits and dividends, medical costs, subscriptions and membership fees, pensions, or gamb l ing and prize earnings. Commissions Prior approval Approval of the BOK is required for the remittance of commissions not directly linked w i th trade and for remittances exceeding the established limits. Quantitative limits The l im i ts are $50,000 and 10% of the value of the unde r ly ing transactions. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Interest payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance is subject to pr ior approval. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days is $10,000. For those staying abroad over 1 year, a remittance of $50,000 ( inc lud ing basic travel allow- ances) is allowed w i th in 2 weeks after the t ime of departure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Indicative limits/bona fide test Residents traveling abroad may, in general, purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a tr ip as their basic travel allowance; additional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The basic monthly allowance for students under 20 years old is $3,000; for students with a dependent family, an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each child is allowed. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Fees related to financial or insurance businesses require MOFE approval, and other fees require BOK approval. Salaries, except for basic l iv ing expenses and retirement allowances, may be remitted to the home countries. Residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children l iv ing abroad for l iv ing expenses and to their relatives abroad for wedding g if ts or fu- neral donations, with no restrictions on the number of remittances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Residents can make payments abroad by credit card for expenditures relating to travel and tourism; for amounts exceeding $5,000 a month, the foreign exchange authorities must ver ify the authenticity of the payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents are permitted to hold foreign currency earned from inv is ib le transactions, but once converted into won, a l im it applies to reconversion. Residents and nonresidents must register domestic and foreign exchange they bring into Korea at customs if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. The importation by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 2 m i l l ion is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency ac- counts at domestic foreign exchange banks, and profits may be converted into won fol- lowing the completion of each project. Domestic firms engaged in international construction and service businesses may deposit abroad up to 30% of the balance of their overseas contracts or $3 m i l l ion, whichever is greater. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may freely acquire listed stocks up to 5% ind iv idua l ly and 20% collec- tively of the local number of shares issued. For convertible bonds issued by small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), they may acquire up to 5% ind iv idua l ly and 30% collectively of the total value of convertible bonds. For other purchases, inc lud ing pub- lic bonds designated by the Securities Exchange Commission, nonresidents require prior approval from the MOFE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents REPUBLIC OF KOREA 465 International organizations may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market; however, other nonresidents require prior approval from the MOFE in order to issue securities in the market. Nonresidents may sell those securities or the rights thereof that they were allowed to acquire. The issue of won-denominated securities abroad requires prior approval of the MOFE. Foreign-currency-denominated securities may be issued abroad by residents by submit- t ing a report to the MOFE. The report of issuance is assumed to be accepted 7 days after submission unless notification to the contrary is made by the MOFE. Foreign investment funds and international beneficiary certificates established with the approval of the MOFE can purchase domestic money market securities without approval of the authorities. For transactions of money market securities between residents and nonresidents other than those mentioned above, approval of the MOFE is required. These transactions require MOFE approval. Certificates of deposit and commercial paper may be regarded as securities like equities and bonds by the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), Decree (FEMD), and Regulation (FEMR). These money market securities may be issued in won or foreign currencies. The issue of foreign-currency-denominated securities on a foreign money market must be filed with the MOFE. Investors who have been approved to purchase foreign money market securities are allowed to sell such securities. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same controls as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of beneficiary certificates by trust companies, either in the domestic or the foreign market, is subject to MOFE approval. The approval system on the issuance of beneficiary certificates is designed especially to protect investors and may be regarded as a k ind of prudential regulation. The size of the issuance of beneficiary certificates shall be established at an appropriate amount in consideration of the vo lume of the capital inflow resulting from the capital market opening. Purchase abroad by residents Such purchase is subject to approval by the MOFE. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issuance and sale of collective investment securities by foreign trust companies in the domestic market require MOFE approval. Although the purchase of domestic collective investment securities by nonresidents requires MOFE approval, nonresidents may sell domestic collective investment securities they have law fu l ly acquired. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign investment funds or international beneficiary certificates established with per- mission from the MOFE may purchase domestic instruments and claims w i thout report- ing. Also, foreign banks can purchase domestic instruments and claims from domestic foreign exchange banks. Other transactions require permission from the MOFE. Effec- t ive May 1996, stock index futures began to be traded on the existing stock exchange, and nonresidents' access to the market was allowed within certain limits. The issue of foreign instruments and claims on the domestic financial market requires MOFE approval. It is not necessary for nonresidents to obtain permission or submit a report when selling domestic instruments and claims once they are permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Residents other than foreign exchange banks may trade through a foreign exchange bank w i th in certain l im i ts equivalent to actual demand. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ i re approval by the MOFE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents SMEs, firms engaged in social overhead capital projects, foreign-financed firms with high technology, and domestic firms that wish to repay overseas borrowing earlier than contracted may borrow abroad. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 mil- lion and with maturities of more than 3 years is governed by the Foreign Capital In- ducement Act. Foreign-financed companies are, in principle, subject to the same regulations governing foreign borrowing as other enterprises. Deferred receipt exports on a letter-of-credit basis, for which the settlement period is less than 3 years from the shipment of goods or signing of the export b i ll of exchange, are allowed without restric- tion. For settlement periods of more than 3 years, these exports are allowed in the fol- lowing cases with validation from a foreign exchange bank: (1) when payment is guaranteed by the importing country's central government agency or central bank; (2) when they are covered by export insurance; and (3) when qualified foreign banking institutions, as designated by the BOK, open letters of credit and guarantee payment. Imports exceeding 360 days are allowed with the validation of a foreign exchange bank in cases where refund guarantees must be provided by the exporting country's central government agency, central bank, or qualified banking institution. Residents wishing to enter into lease contracts for assets other than real estate from non- residents shall obtain validation from a foreign exchange bank. To residents from nonresidents All methods of settlement for trade in goods and services are free, except for those methods specified on the negative list under the FEMR. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits require prior approval from the MOFE. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Foreign exchange banks may borrow abroad. Borrowing by high-technology, foreign- financed manufacturing companies is allowed up to 100% of the foreign-invested capi- tal. Also, maturity is limited to 3 years or less, and limitations are imposed on the use of funds. Foreign borrowing repayable within 3 years is governed by the Foreign Ex- change Act. The maximum maturity period permitted for deferred payments is 180 days for imports of raw materials for export production. Residents, other than banks, must obtain approval from the BOK, except for the follow- ing cases: (1) when a foreign importer is granted an offshore loan by a foreign exchange bank to finance imports from a resident, and the said resident pledges a guarantee in foreign currency; (2) when a resident concludes a contract guaranteeing performance or bearing responsibility for the liabilities assumed by the nonresident, who in turn is pro- v id ing a guarantee, such as bid bonds or other sureties, related to international bids or contracts entered into by a resident; and (3) when residents provide guarantees to serve as collateral for spot financing. There are no restrictions on the provision of underwrit- ten backup facilities by the domestic institutional investors when they participate in an international underwriting syndicate. Any resident may freely accept a guarantee relating to an overseas borrowing to finance an overseas investment from another resident, in which the surety for the guarantee is pledged by nonresidents. Other transactions related to the creation of credits arising from liability guarantee contracts between residents and nonresidents require approval from the BOK. Therefore, residents are free to take up financial backup facilities offered by nonresidents as long as the issuance of overseas securities has been properly reported. For investments of up to $10 m i l l ion, validation of a foreign exchange bank is needed; for amounts between $10 m i l l ion and $50 million, notification to the BOK is needed. If ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment REPUBLIC OF KOREA 467 the amount exceeds $50 m i l l ion, approval of the BOK is needed, and the Overseas In- vestment Advisory Committee examines the investment plan to analyze the effects of the investment on the domestic economy pr ior to issu ing an approval. Equity participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in newly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is not allowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enter- prise, approval from the MOFE is required for financial institutions; approval of the BOK is required for nonfmancial ins t i tu t ions and notification to the BOK for establish- ment of an office. Investments in pub l ic utilities, radio, and television are restricted. Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list, including about 5% of all industries listed in the Korean standard industrial classifi- cation and less than 1% of industries in the manufac tur ing sector. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the max imum va lue of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that invo lve advanced tech- nology. Tax privileges have been con t inuous ly reduced, and postinvestment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are subject to a notification requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by a foreign exchange bank unless it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Overseas direct investments in the fields of lease and sale of real estate, construction, and operation of golf courses are prohibited. No approvals or no t if ica t ions are requ ired for acquisition of overseas real estate by foreign exchange banks, government authori- ties, and residents if given as gifts or through inheritance from nonresidents. However, a notification to the BOK is requ ired for the acquisition of real estate necessary for ap- proved business activities costing up to $10 m i l l ion. For real estate necessary for ap- proved business activities exceeding $10 million, permission from the BOK is required. The following are not restricted: acquisition of domestic land or mortgages, leasing of domestic real estate by nonresidents, and acquisition of real estate or associated rights other than land by nonresidents from nonresidents. No t if ica t ion to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate and its associated rights, including real estate acquired through inheritance or as a g i ft from nonresidents, and the establishment of fixed collat- eral not assuming the transfer of ownership. Approval of the MOFE is required for real estate acquisitions other than those specified above. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval from the BOK is requ i red. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) For reference, the foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the fund- ing of maturities of 1 year or more and for amounts exceeding $10 m i l l ion. Foreign exchange banks may extend credits without restriction to nonresidents in for- eign currency. Other credit ins t i tu t ions that used to be able to extend credits up to $10 m i l l ion were allowed to extend foreign currency credits to nonresidents without restriction in 1996. Foreign currency loans by resident banks to nonresidents of less than $2 m i l l i on are permitted freely. Loans ranging from $2 m i l l ion to $20 m i l l ion requ ire ex post notification to the MOFE, and loans exceeding $20 m i l l ion requ ire pr ior notifica- t ion to the MOFE. Other credit ins t i tu t ions may extend credits up to $10 m i l l i o n. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange There are loan ce i l ings according to the economic sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts are 9% for resident accounts and 1% for nonresident accounts. The l im i ts are as follows: (1) overall overbought position, 15% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month; (2) overall oversold position, 10% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month or $20 m i l l ion, whichever is greater; and (3) spot oversold position, 3% of the total equity capital or $5 million, whichever is greater. In addition to the foreign exchange laws or foreign exchange controls, all institutional investors have their own rules for asset operations. For example, securities companies must keep their proportion of the portfolio invested within 30% of their total assets. Insurance companies and securities investment trust companies can maintain their port- fo l io abroad w i th in 10% and 30% of their total assets, respectively. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without a quantitative ceiling. General corporations and ind iv idua ls are permit- ted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 m i l l ion and $50,000 a year, respectively. Restrictions imposed by the Securities Laws are as follows: (1) domestic securities in- vestments by nonresident foreign nationals are regulated by "Rules on Sales and Pur- chases of Securities by Foreigners" established by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). The main contents of the Rules include investment ceilings, investment proce- dures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regulated by "Rules on Sales and Purchases of Overseas Securities" established by the SEC. The main contents of the Rules include securities' e l ig ib i l i ty for investment and transaction procedures, etc.; (3) issuance of overseas securities by resi- dents are regulated by "Rules on Issuance of Overseas Securities" and "Rules on Man- agement of Listed Companies on Overseas Securities Markets" established by the SEC. The main contents of the Rules include the eligibility of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting, etc.; and (4) international se- curities transactions by residents are regulated by "Rules on Securities Business by Do- mestic Branches of Foreign Securities Companies" established by the SEC. The main contents of the Rules inc lude the accumulation of retained earnings and the obligation of submitting financial statements, etc. The main contents of "Rules on Overseas Securities Business by Domestic Securities Companies" inc lude the restriction on the investment of domestic listed stocks by overseas branches of securities companies. Arrangements for payments and receipts June 1. The prescription of currency requirements applicable to foreign currencies were abolished. Changes During 1996 June 1. Deposits overseas in won were allowed w i th in the ce i l ing on the amount of won that can be carried out when traveling abroad. Also, residents were allowed to purchase and sell won, w i th in the ce i l ing on the amount of won that can be carried out when t rave l ing abroad, at both the domestic foreign exchange banks overseas and at branches and subsidiaries of fore ign banks. June 1. The l im it on won that can be carried in and out when traveling abroad was raised to W 8 m i l l ion from W 3 m i l l ion. June L The l im it on the amount of foreign currency that can be held abroad by general trading companies was raised to 50% with the max imum of $500 million of the trading value from 30% with the maximum of $300 m i l l ion. Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions April 1. The ceilings on securities investments by residents were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 469 May L The issuance of deferred receipts by foreign companies was allowed. May 3. Stock index futures began to be traded on the existing stock exchange, and non- residents' access to the market was allowed w i th in a limit of 15%. June 1. The extension of foreign currency credits abroad by resident institutional inves- tors was liberalized. July L The ceiling on export advances for large enterprises was raised to 15% of the export value of the previous year from 10%. October 31. The ceiling on stock investments by nonresidents was raised twice. The ceiling on aggregate purchases rose to 20% from 15%, and the ceiling on ind iv idual purchases rose to 5% from 3%. October 31. Indirect investment in domestic bonds was allowed by means of the Coun- try Fund. November 1. The access of nonresidents to the stock index of the futures market was raised to 30% from 15%. Capital transactions March 31. The total quantitative ceilings on the issuance of foreign-currency- denominated securities abroad were raised. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1963. Currency The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The external value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjust- able relationship between the dinar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's trade and financial partners. The Central Bank of Kuwait (CBK) sets the exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest market quotations in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements No. Regional arrangements GCC central banks maintain a regional arrangement to exchange GCC banknotes. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign exchange. All trade with Israel is prohibited. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. No. No. Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry (MCI) may import and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 471 KUWAIT Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vege- tables. Licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti mer- chants and companies. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen, a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51% of the stock. Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. The importation of oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foodstuffs con- taining pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over 5 years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders is prohibited. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial li- censes valid for one-time use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed indus- trial establishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the MCI. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under ind iv idual or specific licenses. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for 1 year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for ind iv idual commodities, which are also valid for 1 year. Kuwait applies the un i fo rm tariff structure of the GCC. A m in imum tariff of 4% applies to non-GCC imports, wh i le no tariffs apply to imports with at least 40% local value added from other GCC members. Imports of foodstuffs, as well as some machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Kuwait applies higher tariffs in industries where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 KUWAIT market. Tariff rates differ depending on the domestic value-added content of the prod- ucts in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic value added, protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing imports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5% in the case of consumer goods. The maximum duty imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and poultry, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, ol- ive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Exports of arms and ammunition also require licenses. With quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwait Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents GCC nationals are allowed to purchase local stocks up to a certain limit. Other nonresi- dents are not allowed to purchase capital market securities, namely, stocks. However, nonresidents can purchase local treasury bills and bonds through local banks and in- vestment companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment KUWAIT 473 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resi- dent corporations in Kuwait; foreign participation in new Kuwaiti companies must be less than 49%. The participation of GCC nationals in companies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75% of the capital, and there are no restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only GCC nationals can purchase real estate for private residence purposes of up to 3,000 square meters. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the som (100 tyiyns = 1 som). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The exchange rate of the som vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of auctions that are held twice a week at the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) in which licensed commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus participate. Ex- change rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of cross-exchange rates. The NBK publishes the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar and 38 other currencies twice a week. In addition to the NBK, the commercial banks and the Settlement-and-Savings Company under the NBK are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted without restriction. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements, and settlements may be made in any currency, inc lud ing nonconvertible currencies (e.g., Russian rubles and Kazakh tenge). There are agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU except Georgia; there are credit agreements with Pakistan and Turkey. Yes. There are agreements with the Interstate Bank and the Central Asian Bank for Coopera- tion and Development. The NBK has responsibility for managing its gold and foreign exchange reserves. The som is fu l ly convertible with no restrictions on buying, selling, or holding foreign cur- rencies. The NBK is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commer- cial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. Foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Industry, which issues import and export licenses when required. Licenses for foreign investment and registration of foreign investors are granted by the State Commission for Foreign Investments and Economic Aid in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) No. No. All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBK have priority in purchasing at that price. If the government and the NBK do not exercise that right, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 475 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts must be registered with the NBK and account information must be transmitted to the tax authorities. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Imports of armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poisons, narcotics, works of art, antiques, precious rare earth materials, and rare animal and vegetable matter used in pharmaceutical products are prohibited for reasons of national interest. Goods from the former CIS countries can be imported duty free. Imports from non-CIS countries are subject to a flat customs duty of 10%. The following goods were made subject to a special customs fee on imports from CIS and non-CIS countries in 1996: gasoline (25%), electronic goods (20%), furn i ture (10%), carpets (35%), and crystal (30%). At end-January 1997, the government converted the customs fees on gasoline, carpets, and crystal to excise fees and thus only electronic goods and furn i ture remain subject to higher customs fees. Taxes collected through the exchange system State impo rt monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. No. Exports of weapons, explosives, nuclear materials, poisons, drugs, works of arts, an- tiques, precious rare earth materials, and rare animal and vegetable matter used in phar- maceutical products require licenses for reasons of national interest. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No. No. No. Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents » Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions *~ Currently these instruments are not regulated. No. Yes. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 477 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad After an account is opened, it must be registered. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Investment funds are not permitted to invest, locally or abroad, more than 10% of their total assets in the securities of a single issuer, or to hold more than 25% of the common stock of an issuer. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangements Changes During 1996 July 10. The mandatory purchase by the NBK of gold extracted and produced in the Kyrgyz Republic was abolished, and it was established that the government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the NBK have priority in purchasing gold extracted and produced in the Kyrgyz Republic. December 2. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Industry was established^ Exports and export proceeds February 27. Export taxes were abolished for silk cocoons and hidej August 25. Export taxes of 30% were introduced for gr gram October 17. Export taxes on grain were abolished! Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements March 27. The Settlement and Savings Company under the NBK received a license to accept foreign currency deposits. March 28. A general agreement on customary terms for effecting bilateral transactionsv on the interbank currency market and the state securities market, and an agreement on ) the establishment of.a representative office were concluded with the Interstate Bank/ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is the kip (KN). The Thai baht and U.S. dollar circulate freely and are used for payments. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market; commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided the spread between buying and selling rates remains less than 2%. In practice, however, la Banque pour le commerce ext6rieur du Laos, the major state- owned commercial bank and the dominant transactor in the official exchange market, sets the exchange rate. Based on this information, the exchange arrangement has been reclassified as managed floating from March 31, 1997. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the central bank (CB) provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China, Poland, Russia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Official transactions are handled by the central bank. The Ministry of Commerce (MOC) grants import and export authorization to state trading companies, joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign investors, cooperatives, and other public and private enterprises. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold and silver require CB authorization. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 479 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) other transfers from abroad; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened with commercial banks w i th in the Lao PDR; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These accounts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in Lao PDR; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and du ly declared upon arrival. Nonresidents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents w i thout the approval of the CB. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresi- dents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. These accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not permitted to deposit kip belonging to residents to their convertible kip accounts. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buy ing rate of the commercial bank concerned. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. n.a. Margin deposits are required against letters of credit, and the rates are set by the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL) and other commercial banks. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import licenses issued by the MOC and provincial government authorities are required for all goods. Imports may be made by any registered export-import business. These ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 480 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC consist of state trading companies, joint-venture trade companies, and private trade companies. These companies are categorized as enterprises producing either mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multicommodity, for export-import, or for export promotion. Imports are classified into 9 categories. Enterprises that are pro- ducing import substitutes are allowed to import only materials for construction and electrical products and instruments; vehicles and spare parts; medicine, medical equip- ment, and chemical products for manufacturing; and fuel. Yes. Imports of vehicles, with the exception of imports for foreign investment projects, inter- national organizations, diplomats and retirees, are subject to quotas set by the government. The tariff structure is composed of 6 rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inputs, and certain essential con- sumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to luxury consumer goods, cer- tain beverages, and tobacco. Special tariff rates apply to vehicles (50%, 80%, 100%, and 150%), cigarettes (60%), and beer (80%). n.a. No. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses, which are issued by the MOC and provincial government authorities, are required for all products. Quotas apply only to timber. Export duties are levied on certain products at rates ranging from 3% to 30%. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. On capital market securities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 481_ Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All kip and foreign currency deposits are subject to reserve requirements. Reserves on kip deposits are to be held in kip. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements March 31. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified as managed floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Latvia is the lats. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating The lats is informally pegged to the SDR and, since February 1994, has maintained a constant exchange rate against the SDR of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of Latvia (BOL) quotes fixing rates of the lats against 22 convertible currencies daily. These rates are used for accounting purposes, and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes in real time buy ing and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., U.S. dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling). The spread between the buy ing and selling rates is 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Un ion can be made through any means, inc lud ing through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which the BOL maintains agreements on mutual settlement of accounts are effected in accordance with the terms of these agreements. Inoperative bilateral payment agreements are maintained with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Outstanding balances from similar accounts with Belarus and Turkmenistan have been cleared. Regional arrangements n.a. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of ministers and approved by parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the authority to issue regulations gov- erning foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign ex- change transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the BOL. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade A license is required. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 LATVIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in do- mestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Nonresident natural persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in Lat- via denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. No. No. n.a. There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports except on imports of sugar, cereals, tobacco and tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and fuels, which are re- tained for statistical purposes. For national health and safety reasons, licenses are also required for pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The tariff system includes a basic tariff rate of 20% for final nonagricultural goods, with 15% applied to goods from countries with MFN status. In 1995, 39% of imports were assessed the 15% MFN duty rate or less. Another 57% of imports were subject to lower duties under free-trade agreements. Only 4% of imports were subject to the 20% rate. Estimated production-weighted average tariff rates of 53% (46% MFN rates) are applied to agricultural goods. Most raw materials, spare parts, fru i t, nuts, coffee, and tea are assessed a 1% duty (0.5% when imported from MFN countries). Some final goods are exempt from customs duties. Specific duties apply to a few goods, such as certain grains, flour, sugar, certain confectionary products, alcohol, cigarettes, cars, and motor- cycles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 485 At end-July 1996, Latvia maintained trade and economic cooperation agreements pro- v id ing for MFN status with the following countries: Armenia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Canada, Cyprus, China, Cuba, Hungary, Iceland, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyr- gyz Republic, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, the United States, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam. Latvia has free-trade agreements with the other Baltic countries, the European Un ion, EFTA, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Re- public, and Slovenia. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Export duties are levied on waste and scrap metals, certain categories of round logs, certain mineral products, works of art, antiques, and certain books. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Nonresidents are not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies operating in the forestry sector and in lottery and gambling businesses. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 LATVIA Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of buildings is permitted, but the purchase of land near borders and in environmentally protected areas is not allowed. In October 1996, the law on land privatization in rural regions was passed, allowing juridical persons registered in Latvia to purchase rural land when more than one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment; (2) to a group of the previous categories; and (3) it is a public joint-stock company, shares of which are quoted on the stock exchange. On January 13, 1997, the law on land reform in cities was passed, establishing that ur- ban land can be purchased by foreign juridical persons registered in Latvia when more than one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs to the citizens of Latvia or to natural or jur id ical persons of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment. Juridical persons registered in Latvia have the right to purchase land under bu i ld ings and constructions that have been acquired as a result of privatization and the land neces- sary for the maintenance of buildings and constructions. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of capital for any single foreign currency and 20% of capital for all foreign currencies. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Capital transactions April 9. The requirement of cabinet approval for foreign direct investment above $1 m i l l ion was eliminated. Changes During 1996 Capital transactions December 5. The law on land privatization in rural regions was passed, allowing ju r id i- cal persons registered in Latvia to purchase rural land when more than one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment; (2) to a group of the previous categories; and (3) it is a public joint-stock company, shares of which are quoted on the stock exchange. Changes During 1997 January 13. Regulations of the cabinet of ministers with the power of the law on priva- tization and expropriation of urban land of Republic of Latvia were passed. The Regu- lations allow persons registered in Latvia to purchase urban land when more than one- half of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to the citizens of Latvia, (2) to the citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement to promote foreign invest- ment, (3) a group of the previous categories, and (4) it is a pub l ic joint-stock company, quoting shares on the stock exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are market determined, but the authorities may announce buy ing or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transac- tions in any currency except in Israeli new sheqalim. No. No. Banks are prohibited from engaging in forward transactions unless the transactions are related to foreign trade. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted No. n.a. No. No. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins require a certifi- cate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, that indicates the gold content and weight. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 LEBANON Held domestically Approval required Held abroad E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Such accounts cannot be held at non- resident banks or financial institutions. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Importers must place with banks a prior deposit of 15% of the value of the letter of credit (LC) in the same currency as the LC. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Banks must ensure that importers possess a valid import license, if required, before issu- ing LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for certain finished goods, insulated electric and telephone wires, and copper cables. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports prohibited year-round include citrus fru i ts, apples, and l iqu id m i lk. Imports prohibited du r ing a specified period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, apricots, potatoes, onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, garlic, Jew's mallow, okra, muskmelons, pears, peaches, green almonds, grapes, green peppers, pomegranates, and green plums. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from zero to 20% and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain imports from Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. The tax on motor vehicles is levied at the rate of 20% of the first LL 25 m i l l ion and 35% on the rema in ing value. The fo l low ing rates apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, 35% of the value; champagne, wine, and vermouths, 80% of the value; and arak, 50% of the value. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 489 State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Exports of arms and ammunition, narcotics, and similar products are prohibited. Li- censes are required for wheat and wheat derivatives to any country and for all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 LEBANON Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits, extending credits, or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial institutions. However, this restric- tion does not apply to guarantees issued by nonresident banks and financial institutions as collateral to loans in Lebanese pounds, provided that such loans are for commercial or investment activities in Lebanon. n.a. n.a. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempted from fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Income from all accounts with banks have been exempt from the income tax. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses aris- ing from noncivil risks, inc lud ing war. Compensation is paid on losses of more than 10% of the insured value. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Banks may maintain a trading position in foreign currency of up to 5% (short or long) of the core capital of banks, and a fixed position in foreign currency (long) of up to 60% of core capital in Lebanese pounds. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the loti. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The loti is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, how- ever, is not common in Lesotho. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with all countries outside the CMA may be made in rand to and from a nonres ident account and in any foreign currency. As Lesotho is part of the CMA, payments w i th in the CMA are unrestricted and unre- corded except for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those applied by South Africa and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and dele- gates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of current payments up to established l im i ts. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial ins t i tu t ions accepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. According to UN Security Counc il Resolutions No. 661 and No. 757 and in accordance w i th actions taken by other members of the CMA, Lesotho imposed restrictions on cur- rent payments and transfers to Iraq and to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), respectively. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only authorized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may ho ld gold. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 LESOTHO Controls on external trade Exports of gold from the CMA are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of currency from the CMA are prohibited. Exports of foreign currency from the CMA by residents are prohibited; visitors may re- export the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the country. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Yes. Resident Accounts Jur id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Banks may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. n.a. Yes. No. Only banks may hold these accounts. Approval required n.a. Accounts in domestic currency con- ver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are prohibited. Blocked accounts Funds in emigrant blocked loti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a family un it a year. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F in an c ing requirements for impor ts Advance payment requ iremen ts Payments are not norma l ly allowed before the date of sh ipment or dispatch, except with the pr ior approval or special authorization from the CBL. Authorized dealers can permit, w i thout the CBL's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if supp l iers requ ire it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 493 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Lesotho is a member of the SACU and all imports, except certain food imports, originat- ing in any country of the SACU are unrestricted. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with the import regulations of the SACU. Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. With certain exceptions, imports from outside the SACU must conform to a negative list and be licensed. Licenses with quotas Certain food imports from w i th in the SACU are subject to import licensing. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Lesotho applies the external customs tariffs of the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export licenses Without quotas Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 6 months of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export credit scheme is in effect, involving credit guarantees, and pre- and post-shipment credits. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in prac- tice, is limited to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, foreign workers' wages, pensions, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, or the use of credit cards abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve some types of current payments up to established limits. Emigrants are allowed to transfer, through normal bank ing channels, up to M 300,000 of earnings on blocked assets. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Profit/dividends These transfers are not restricted, provided the funds were not obtained through exces- sive use of local borrowing facilities. Prior approval Prior approval of the CBL is required, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. There is an indicative l im it of M 60,000 a year for adults and M 20,000 for ch i ldren under 12 years of age, at an average daily rate of up to M 2,000 for the duration of the visit. The basic annual exchange allowance for travel to neighboring countries —Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 LESOTHO Zimbabwe —is M 20,000 an adult and M 5,000 a child under 12 years of age, at an av- erage daily rate of up to M 1,000 for the duration of the visit. Emigrant allowances are up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. The limits are M 4,000 a month for a single student or M 8,000 a month for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not studying. n.a. n.a. Yes. The limit for professional fees is M 10,000, and the limit for technical services is M 50,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered within 7 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Quantitative limits exist. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Yes. n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Quantitative restrictions apply. No legal or regulatory framework exists. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 495 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export credits are available for up to 6 months; in certain circumstances, the ma tur i ty can be extended by 6 months. Longer-term credits require exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits require exchange control approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These credits require prior approval. However, nonresident, who l ly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not disrupt the balance of payments and to ensure that the level of interest rates paid is rea- sonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Guarantees of up to M 25,000 in respect of overdraft facilities for residents of Bo- tswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe for domestic, farming, and business purposes may be approved. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment The ru l ings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Outward direct investment Outward direct investment is prohibited. Inward direct investment Inward capital transfers should be properly documented to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are proh ib i ted. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior approval is requ ired, Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers may lend up to M 20,000, provided that the total available to the borrower from any source does not exceed this amount. Facilities in excess of such amount need pr ior approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian dollar. There are 2 Liberian dollar notes, Liberty notes and J.J. Roberts notes. Although off ic ia l ly at par, the market assigns different values to Liberty notes and J.J. Roberts notes. The Roberts notes are traded at premium against Liberty notes. The U.S. dollar is also legal tender. There is an official exchange rate, which is limited to the settlement of tax obligations, compliance with reserve requirements, and data reporting and a parallel exchange rate that applies to most transactions, including government spending. The Liberian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Lib$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in parallel market transactions, and commercial banks charge h igh commissions for sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market- determined exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Some exporters must pay w i thho ld ing taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. n.a. n.a. Settlements w i th the BCEAO and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Payments arrears Off ic ial Private Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 497 Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrict!vely. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments n.a. n.a. No. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements n.a. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped. Both final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures n.a. n.a. Negative list There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items, includ- ing safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohib- ited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. Positive list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. n.a. n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs The nominal average tariff rate is 31%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Yes. Exporters are required to surrender 25% of export proceeds to the National Bank of Liberia (NBL) through the commercial banks; this requirement is not strictly enforced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 LIBERIA The government and the NBL receive priority for the purchase of this foreign exchange. The portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not purchased by the pub l ic sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. F inanc ing requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are generally issued freely and serve mainly to enforce the 25% surrender of export proceeds and taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin. Export licenses are required for elephant tusks and ivory; wild animals; cement; agricul- tural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar; and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explosives. n.a. An export tax of 15% is levied on diamonds. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by ket instruments residents. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of L ibya is the Libyan dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax The Libyan dinar is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1 per SDR 2.80. Margins of up to 47% are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted w i th in those margins to LD 1 per SDR 1.905. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. An agreement is maintained with Malta; outstanding balances are settled in convertible currencies every 90 days. n.a. The Central Bank of Libya (CBL) administers exchange control and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, which is executed by the Secretariat of Planning, the Economy, and Trade. No. No. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The CBL imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold must be processed before it may be sold to the pub l ic. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15%. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may not take out Libyan currency. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Foreign currency Notes up to LD 300 may be taken out in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance. Additional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a m in imum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Ind iv idual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad w i thout restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain for- eign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Approval of the CBL is required. Held abroad n.a. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents who are ga in fu l ly employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts, which may be credited with their legitimate earnings. All other credits to non- resident accounts require the prior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the CBL after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. Blocked accounts Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the CBL, funds in blocked accounts (with cer- tain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent resi- dence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for 5 years, they qua l ify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments. Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Authorized banks may not open a letter of credit (LC) without an advance import de- posit equal to at least 20% of the value of the import. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 501 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n.a. Before a LC is established, a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company must be submitted. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks fol- lowing central bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning, the Economy, and Trade. Imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises do not require licenses if they are authorized within the annual commodity budget; other imports are subject to licensing. Resident firms undertaking development projects may import needed items not included in the annual commodity budget if the items are not available locally. Imports by non- residents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. With the exception of strategic goods (i.e., 9 essential food items, medicines, insecti- cides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) retained by public corporations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provisions of the annual commodity budget. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to deal directly with pro- ducers abroad and not through intermediaries. Imports of mineral water, fruit juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegeta- bles, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and furs are prohibited. n.a. n.a. Imports are subject to customs duties and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the appli- cable customs duties. All products from Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, provided domestic value added is at least 40%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 6 months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 40% of earnings. All exports require the opening of LCs. n.a. n.a. n.a. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the Export Pro- motion Council and supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on their ex- ports. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), scrap metals, eggs, chicken, fish, olive oil, paint, tires, steel, and tractors are prohibited. Exports or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Without quotas With quotas reexports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are prohibited. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports and interest payments are not re- stricted. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the CBL. Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Foreign exchange allocations for travel were suspended in 1992. Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresidents employed by the state, by state-owned enterprises, and by foreign compa- nies may remit (1) up to 50% of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the em- ployer; or (2) up to 75% of their net salaries if their contracts specify that the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 503 Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions Purchase abroad of these instruments by residents requires approval. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in ex- porting the surplus production. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid- up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Affairs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lithuania is the litas. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The litas is pegged to the U.S. dollar at LTL 1 per U.S. dollar since Apr il 1994 when the currency board arrangement was established. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of L i thuan ia (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. n.a. n.a. n.a. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a banking law delegating to the BOL the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to trans- act among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania, and are divided into 4 categories, depending on the types of transactions they are permitted to conduct. The simplest type of license limits the operations to buy ing and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). At present, several banks have been granted a general license that allows them to offer a fu ll range of banking services ( inc lud ing issu- ing letters of credit) in foreign exchange operations, and they are permitted to open cor- respondent accounts with banks abroad. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 LITHUANIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quantitative restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage and to prevent illegal trade in copper and other nonferrous metals, alloys, and scrap. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco can be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. A 3-tier tariff structure exists consisting of: (1) a "conventional" rate applied to coun- tries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement; (3) an "autonomous" rate that is 5% to 10% greater than the MFN rate applied to all other countries. For most imports, a 10% tariff rate applies. Higher tariff rates are levied on certain products (such as live animals, agri- cultural products, alcohol and tobacco, and a few manufactured goods), some exceeding 30%. The majority of agricultural products (and certain other items such as alcohol) are subject to zero tariff rates. A tax at the un iform rate of 0.01% is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole pur- pose of collecting statistical information on trade. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses LITHUANIA 507 Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Quantitative export restrictions have been almost eliminated. From November 1, 1994, to May 1, 1996, the fo l low ing products were subject to temporary export prohibitions: red clover seeds, feathers and down used for stuffing, raw hides and skins, unprocessed pine and birch timber with a thin-end diameter of not less than 20 cm., unprocessed oak and ash timber, and glands and other organs used for pharmaceutical products and or- ganotherapeutical uses without quotas issued by the Ministry of Health Care. This prohibition served to protect a small number of domestic processors of primary prod- ucts. The export bans were not binding for countries that have signed a foreign trade agreement with Lithuania. In the case of products, banned exports account for only 20% of total exports, because wood is mostly exported to Finland, Switzerland, and Ger- many, all of which have foreign trade agreements with Lithuania. Regulations govern- ing trade in strategic goods and technology, cultural objects, nonferrous scrap, and waste apply to exports as well as imports. Export taxes Export duties are levied on certain raw materials and selected products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. No. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Resident firms may borrow foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad with the approval of the BOL. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 LITHUANIA Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions, except in fields that are subject to prohibition under the Law on Foreign Capital Investments: state defense, production and sale of narcotic sub- stances, and lottery business. The law permits the state to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects in- vestments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enter- prises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the company must remain involved in the same type of business for at least 1 year under the new ownership. While firms with 100% foreign capital ownership are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the government reserves the right to establish l im i ts on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. In jo int ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is required to hold the majority of shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic bever- age or tobacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insurance companies, even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. The Law of Foreign Investments guarantees the free repatriation of all after-tax profits as well as invested capital, with no limitation on t im ing or amount. It also provides for important tax incentives. If the foreign investment was made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70% (to a range of 8.7% to 29% for 5 years). For another 3 years, the profit tax is reduced by 50%. For investments made between January 1994 and December 1995, profits are taxed at a rate reduced by 50% for 6 years. For jo int ventures, these reductions are proportional to the foreign capital invested. The ownership of land by nonresidents in L i thuan ia is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits to 2 hectares of land in V i ln ius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permit- ted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. In the near future, according to EU requirements, nonresidents of certain foreign countries w i ll be allowed to purchase land. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Resident banks or other credit institutions must inform the BOL about their accounts with foreign banks. Locally issued securities must be denominated in the national currency. Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 30% of their capital, and the open posi- tion in ind iv idual currencies may not exceed 20% of the banks' capital. The open posi- tion l im it does not apply to the U.S. dollar. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the currencies are at par. Other legal tender The Belgian franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Luxembourg participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross- rates derived from the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Luxembourg applies exchange restrictions against Iraq. Yes. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Yes. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. LUXEMBOURG E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by international security restrictions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for imports may be made freely. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the EU), including many textile and steel prod- ucts, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA and also applies a system of m in imum import prices to foreign steel product quotas on a number of steel products from Russia and Ukraine, and quotas on a number of products from China (toys, shoes, ceramic, porcelain, and glassware). On January 1, 1997, the quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was eliminated. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, and for diamonds and for some iron and steel products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG 511 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions There are no controls on capital transactions. A currency matching requirement on the composition of assets and liabilities applies to insurance companies only. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts October 2. Exchange restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Serb forces were lifted. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January L Authorization for imports of certain preserved foodstuffs (tuna, bonito, and sardines) was abolished. January L The quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the denar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The exchange market operates at two levels —wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM)) and retail (households). The NBM par- ticipates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the deutsche mark at a level that would meet balance of payments objectives. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the NBM, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the NBM publishes rates for 22 currencies. The NBM deals at the published midpoint rates plus or minus a margin of 0.3%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks; enterprises; and natural persons. Foreign ex- change bureaus may hold foreign exchange positions equivalent to 100% of the net foreign exchange purchases in the preceding 10 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. Official cover of forward operations The NBM may conclude forward foreign exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The parliament has the authority to legislate laws governing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made through government regulations. The NBM is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate in- ternationally. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been delegated to the participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Ministry of Foreign Relations administers the Commercial Companies Act. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Arrears are maintained with respect to debt with the European Investment Bank, which will be cleared dur ing 1997. 512 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 513 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold producers must report all production (including quality) and quantity sold. Proces- sors are also required to report all quantities bought and processed. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold require NBM approval. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency A maximum of MDen 5,000 in denominations of 100-, 50-, 20-, and 10-denar banknotes may be exported. Up to DM 1,000 for private domestic travelers, and for business travelers up to the amount stated on the bank order form. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country. Same limits as in exportation apply. Foreign travelers must declare foreign currency over DM 300. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange deposits made after April 26, 1991, are freely disposable, i.e., they can be withdrawn in foreign currency or converted into denars. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Enterprises with foreign operations may hold these accounts, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion into denars. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. A contract, invoice, or customs declaration should be submitted to the commercial bank effecting the payment. Generally, payments for imports are permitted after the importa- tion of goods. Beginning February 28, 1997, imports of raw materials may not be paid in advance. Exceptionally, payments in advance are permitted for imports of equipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, and goods financed by foreign loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing re- quirements for security or public health reasons. Positive list Negative list Yes. Yes. Licenses with quotas Quotas were eliminated on December 2, 1996. Import taxes and/or tariffs A new customs tariff schedule was introduced on July 31, 1996, eliminating most im- port surcharges and fees. Customs duties on most items range up to 35%; rates on raw materials range from zero to 8%; machinery and equipment from 5% to 20%; consumer goods from 15% to 35%; and agricultural goods from 20% to 60%. The number of bands were reduced to 7 and the average rate to about 15%. There is also a 1% docu- mentation fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds from transactions that are not based on commodity credits have to be transferred by the exporters into the country within 90 days from the day the expor- tation was made. Exporters must sell their proceeds to the foreign exchange market within 4 business days of transferring them into the country, use the proceeds for payments abroad, or deposit them in banks for a period of up to 90 days, after which they must sell their proceeds in the foreign exchange market. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Generally, exports are liberal. However, in some exceptional cases the export of certain goods requires a license from the appropriate authorities. Yes. Quotas were eliminated on December 2, 1996. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to mer- chandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and juridical persons is not permitted. There are no regulations on inward portfolio investment. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 515 On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Short-term commercial banks' credit lines with a maturity from 90 days to 180 days should be registered. By residents to nonresidents Only credits for the export of goods are permitted. Export credits exceeding 90 days and credits for import of goods exceeding 180 days should be registered with the NBM. To residents from nonresidents Credits for the import of goods for consumption are not permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Only commercial banks are permitted to conclude financial credits involving promotion of export of goods and services. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Only commercial banks may effect these transactions, which should be registered with the NBM. Outward direct investment Investments require approval from and registration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Inward direct investment Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or estab- lish jo int ventures except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not produced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20%. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment All foreign investment registered with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is protected from nationalization. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange This lend ing is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Nonresident deposits in denars are subject to requirements, but foreign exchange depos- its are not. Credit controls Credit controls apply only to domestic currency credits. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 July 3L A new customs tariff schedule following the harmonized system and eliminat- ing most import surcharges and fees was introduced. The new tariffs range up to 35% for the great majority of items. The number of bands was reduced to 7 from 18 and the average rate (including additional import taxes) was reduced to about 15% from 28%. August 9. After the new customs tariff schedule was introduced, a new list of all goods by export and import regime was adopted. The trade regime consists of 3 categories: (1) liberal exports/imports, (2) quantitative quotas for exports/imports, and (3) license requirements. December 2. The new list of all goods by trade regime was changed. Exports and export proceeds December 2. The quantitative quotas for exports were eliminated. Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 February 28. The NBM changed the regulation for payment of imports in advance, allowing only imports of equipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, and goods financed by foreign loans to be paid in advance. February 28. Advance payments for raw materials were no longer allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 18, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate is determined freely in the official interbank market. The French franc is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies con- cerned in the Paris exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Official cover of forward operations Exporters can buy foreign currency 120 days prior to settlement from their bank. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative No. n.a. There is an arrangement w i th Mauritius. Barter agreements and open accounts Regulations proh ib it barter trade. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the General Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Mada- gascar. Approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized inter- mediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries, except for capital operations. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold w i th in the country from holders of valid gold m in ing titles, from authorized hold- ers of gold washing rights at the Gold Board, and from agencies for approved collectors. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 5 18 MADAGASCAR Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines, and by the Ministry of Mining. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether li- censed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold mining title or a gold washing permit or rights thereto are free to sell the gold re- covered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. The Gold Board and agencies authorized by the Ministry of Mining may export gold in all its forms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Residents and nonresident travelers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is more than the equivalent of F 50,000. Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to FMG 25,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is more than the equivalent of F 50,000. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, as well as foreign banknotes, or traveler's and bank checks may be deposited in these accounts without justification. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the limits stipulated under the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresidents are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and residents are conducted through the enterprises' foreign accounts in Malagasy francs. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 519 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements The requirement applies to all imports. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures There is a shortlist of imports subject to administrative control pr imar i ly for health and security reasons. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import tariffs range from 10% to 30%. Imports are also subject to customs duties rang- ing up to 20%, although the sum of the import tariff and customs duty may not exceed 30% for any item. Some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%. A pretax of 3% to 5%, deductible from the corporate tax, is paid on all imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Petroleum products are imported by a state monopoly. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds should be repatriated w i th in 90 days of the shipment date. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. Yes. n.a. The requirement applies for exports exceeding FMG 1 m i l l ion. Yes. No. Exports of van i l la are subject to an export tax of about $21 per kilogram. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Transfers of interest payments, profits and dividends, foreign workers' wages, and pen- sions must be effected through licensed intermediaries and have, since September 1996, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 MADAGASCAR been subject to a simple declaration to the intermediaries. In January 1997, the payment of airfares in Malagasy francs was authorized. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Quantitative limits for allowances for travel and for study abroad were abolished on August 28, 1996 and November 28, 1996, respectively. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of the due date. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold in the interbank market. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries, and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). There are no capital market regulations, due to the absence of a capital market. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These operations currently do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export prefinancing operations are permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether pub l ic or private, requires prior authorization from the MOF, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign com- panies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. Investments, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted within Madagascar without authorization or investment approval, according to Law 96-015 of August 13, 1996. The total or partial l iqu ida t ion of these investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authoriza- tion of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 521 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These purchases are prohibited, unless otherwise approved by the MOF. Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale locally by nonresidents Transfer of proceeds of sale is subject to prior authorization by the MOF. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Controls are implemented through bank supervision. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers September 18. Madagascar accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. September 16. The Bank and Financial Institution Supervisory Commission authorized the opening of exchange bureaus. December 30. The deadline for surrendering export proceeds to the interbank foreign exchange market was abolished. August 28. The l im it on the foreign exchange allowance for travel was eliminated. November 28. The l im it on the foreign exchange allowance for study abroad was eliminated. Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers September 12. Granting of foreign exchange for current payments was to be based on a simple declaration to authorized intermediaries. Capital transactions August 13. Foreign direct investment was no longer subject to prior authorization. December 30. The deadline for surrendering proceeds from these transactions was abolished. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January 13. Payment of air transport in domestic currency by all persons traveling to Madagascar was authorized. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Malawi kwacha is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand. Authorized dealer banks (ADBs) may buy and sell foreign currencies at freely determined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general pub l ic on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Malawi or in Malawi kwacha through nonresident accounts. No. Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) under the authority of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). No. No. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell only gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only the monetary authorities can hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Only the monetary authorities can conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try (MCI) in consultation with the MOF; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Up to MK 200 may be exported. Approval for exports is granted subject to verification of need. Domestic currency Up to MK 200 may be imported. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Resident Accounts 523 E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad, including exporters, may maintain these accounts and use balances to make authorized payments and transfers without restriction. Prior approval is required. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with proceeds of sales of any convertible currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha from abroad, and with transfers from other non- resident accounts. These accounts may be debited to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonresident accounts, and make pay- ments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency n.a. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts do not require prior authorization, and authorization is normally given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. In- terest earned on balances may be transferred to the account holder's country of residence. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and import payments may be made to an appropriate local nonresident account in Malawi currency or in any convertible currency. When imports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must submit applications for foreign exchange. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant importation and customs documents. Depending on the means of payment (e.g., letters of credit), commercial banks may require counterpart deposits. Minimum financing requirements n.a. Advance payment requirements Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Advance import deposits Official regulations do not require these deposits; however, commercial banks do so as a banking practice. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Open general licenses Imports of certain agricultural products and used clothing, as well as gold, fertilizers, switchblade knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, wild animals, live fish, and copyrighted articles require specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are usually issued w i th in 1 week of application and are normally valid for 6 months. Most imports are subject to the open general license system, inc lud ing imports from Commonwealth countries and from countries that are members of the GATT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 MALAWI Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs are ad valorem and range from zero to 45% of c.i.f. value with a weighted average of about 21%. Tariffs on textiles are 35% and the effective maximum rate is 40% on most items. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Im- ports are also subject to a surtax ranging up to 20%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes ADBs are required to convert 60% of foreign exchange received from exports immedi- ately upon receipt at the prevailing buy ing exchange rate and credit the Malawi kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The remaining 40% may be credited to the ex- porter's foreign currency account. There are no restrictions on the time period over which such balances may be held. This 60% conversion is also applied to U.S. dollar proceeds from the tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the con- version is 100% until the seller has fu l ly repaid his overdraft with his bankers. The ex- porter or recipient of the U.S. dollar proceeds from the auction may freely sell his or her foreign exchange to any authorized foreign exchange dealer. Imports of implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products require licenses. Specific duties, or cesses, are levied on exports of hides and skins, and tobacco. A duty drawback system exists for imports of certain inputs used in exported manufactured goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commercial banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange, without reference to the exchange control authorities, for all current invisible payments, but certain invisible payments are subject to indicative limits. There are no controls on payments for the costs of study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, and consulting and legal fees. Freight/insurance Indicative limits/bonaflde test Yes. Unloading/storage costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Administrative expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 525 Profit/dividends Prior approval These transfers are not restricted, provided that no recourse is made to local borrowing to finance them. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are $3,000 a trip for tourist travel, and $5,000 a trip for business travel. There is no l im it on the number of trips that may be taken. Indicative limits/bonafide test Foreign exchange in excess of these limits is granted upon proof of need. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limit is two-thirds of current net earnings. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds may be retained in fu ll and held in foreign-currency-denominated accounts with ADBs. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required, Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 MALAWI Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is nor- mally granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Yes. Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Repatriation of investments is permitted if the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malaysia is the ringgit. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Forward exchange market The Malaysian ringgit is determined by supply and demand. The Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) intervenes only to maintain orderly market conditions and to avoid excessive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit. The BNM also monitors the exchange rate against a weighted basket of currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote ex- change rates, whether spot or forward, to all customers for all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transac- tions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports is provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes, the forward cover would be up to 6 months from the export date. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). There are 12 arrangements: 5 Palm Oil Credit and Payment Arrangements (POCPAs), 1 revolving credit, and 6 with the LAIA. There are 10 arrangements: 1 POCPA and 9 with the LAIA. n.a. n.a. n.a. The Controller of Foreign Exchange (COFE), who is also the Governor of the Bank of the BNM, administers exchange control. On June 23, 1993, Malaysia notified the Fund that it had imposed certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 MALAYSIA Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes in a traveler's immediate possession. The exportation of ringgit currency by any other means requires prior ap- proval from the COFE. Exportation of foreign currency notes, other than on the person or in the baggage of a traveler, requires prior approval. No limitation is imposed on a traveler's importation of currency notes. The importation of ringgit banknotes by other than commercial banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the COFE. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Malaysia up to $10 million. Thirty-five designated banks are permitted to offer foreign currency accounts to residents. All other domestic banks must obtain permission from the COFE before offering foreign currency accounts to residents. These accounts can be opened only with designated banks. Residents with no domestic borrowing are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks. Residents with domestic borrowing require prior approval. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts All commercial and merchant banks are allowed to open these accounts. Nonresident ringgit accounts in Malaysia are designated external accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceeding RM 100,000, if residents make such payments. Proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be transferred to any other resident or nonresident account or converted into any currency, except those of Israel and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). All debits and credits to the latter accounts require pr ior approval. Commercial banks are required to place domestic cur- rency funds of foreign banking institutions held in non-interest-bearing vostro accounts with the BNM in designated non-interest-bearing current accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 529 Blocked accounts All debits and credits to accounts of residents of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) require prior approval. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is administered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. n.a. Imports from Israel require licenses. Finished motor vehicle imports are subject to nonautomatic import licensing, which is administered by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. The movement of live animals between peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion of an animal from all countries require an import license. Imports of primates, whether dead or alive, require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of W i ld l i fe and Na- tional Parks. Imports from Haiti are prohibited. n.a. Certain imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when required. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than 6 months after the date of exportation. Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks up to $10 m i l l ion. Exports of rubber from peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) require export licensing from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Exports of logs are restricted and require licensing from the Malaysian Timber Industries Board. Ex- ports of petroleum and petroleum products, arms and related materials, military vehicles and equipment, and police equipment to Haiti are prohibited. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, m i lk and specified m i lk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Customs (Prohibition of Ex- ports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Without quotas n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 With quotas Export taxes MALAYSIA n.a. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The pri- mary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to all other countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenego) may be made without restriction. Remittances to nonresidents of profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts RM 100,000 and above. Remittances of interest payments do not require prior approval as long as such payments are in accor- dance with the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule speci- fied in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Malaysia has no exchange control restrictions for nonresidents selling Malaysian secu- rities in the country, nor does it require them to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. How- ever, nonresidents must obtain approval to issue securities in the country. No restrictions apply for transactions valued at less than RM 100,000; but for those amounting to RM 100,000 or more, the following requirements must be met: (1) the payment is made in foreign currency and (2) the resident has no domestic borrowing or for corporate residents with domestic credit facilities, the total payment to nonresidents for the purpose of investment abroad does not exceed the aggregate amount of RM 10 m i l l ion in a calendar year. The prior approval of the COFE is required for trans- actions that do not comply with the above requirements. Effective November 15, 1996, investment abroad is considered on a corporate group basis. No exchange controls apply to a resident for the sale of securities abroad. However, a resident must obtain approval to issue securities abroad. Approval is given if the pro- ceeds associated with these issues are used to finance productive activities in Malaysia, particularly for projects that generate foreign exchange earnings or save on the future outflow of foreign exchange through the production of import substitution goods. The proceeds from the sale or permitted issuance of securities are required to be transferred to Malaysia. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 531 Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents When residents issue money market instruments abroad, it is considered obtaining credit facilities. Residents are freely permitted to obtain credit facilities in foreign currency only up to RM 5 million. For amounts exceeding this figure, prior approval of the COFE is required. Approval is given for foreign currency credit facilities raised on rea- sonable terms to finance productive activities in Malaysia, particularly for projects that generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the external debt so created. There is no exchange control on the sale of Malaysian securities in the country by non- residents and for the latter to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. However, approval is required for nonresidents to issue securities in the country. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents A resident must obtain permission to make payments to a nonresident for any spot or forward contract or interest rate fu tures not transacted at a futures exchange in Malaysia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents must obtain permission to issue and to sell financial instruments abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents No controls apply to residents other than authorized dealers to extend credit to nonresi- dents for the export of goods from Malaysia up to a maximum period of 6 months from the date of export. A resident is permitted to obtain credit facilities in foreign currency up to the equivalent of RM 5 m i l l ion in the aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any larger amount would require the prior approval of the COFE. Resi- dents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresidents. There is no restriction for residents to obtain commercial credits from nonresidents for the importation of capital goods for a period not exceeding 12 months. No restrictions apply to credits granted by residents (other than authorized dealers) in foreign currency to nonresidents of less than RM 100,000. Larger credits are permitted, provided that (1) the payment is made in foreign currency and (2) the resident has no domestic borrowing or for corporate residents with domestic credit facilities, the total payment to nonresidents for the purpose of investment abroad does not exceed the ag- gregate amount of RM 10 m i l l ion in a calendar year. The COFE's prior approval is re- quired for any payments that do not comply with the above requirements. Effective November 15, 1996, loans to nonresidents by corporate residents are considered on a corporate group basis. A resident is permitted to obtain total credit in foreign currency of up to RM 5 m i l l ion from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any larger amount wou ld require the pr ior approval of the COFE. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresidents. These transactions are permitted. However, any payment to a nonresident in relation to or consequential to the guarantee must be made in foreign currency. Residents are permitted to obtain financial guarantees of any amount in ringgit or for- eign currency only from (1) a licensed offshore bank in the Labuan International Off- shore Financial Center; or (2) nonresident ind iv idua ls or nonresidents who are shareholders, subsidiaries, related or associate companies that are not financial institutions, prov ided all payments related to the guarantees are made in foreign cur- rency. Otherwise, approval is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 MALAYSIA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment There are no exchange restrictions. However, the fo l low ing inward investments require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, merg- ers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that w i ll cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of jo in t-ven ture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance ar- rangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that in- volve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the fo l low ing circum- stances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 m i l l ion; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new subscription by several foreign entities increases their joint vot- ing power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate ho ld ing of several foreign entities in- creases to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company to more than RM 5 m i l l ion on incorpo- ration, the holdings of foreign entities constitute more than 15% of the voting power, or the jo int holdings of several foreign entities constitute 30% or more of the voting power of the company concerned. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the percentage of production exported, whether high-technology products are purchased, or whether priority products are produced for the domestic market. For projects invo lv ing extracting, m in ing, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is permitted. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the comple- tion of a statistical form for amounts of RM 100,000 or more. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases of securities abroad by residents apply. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Only authorized dealers and tier 1 merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in for- eign currency from nonresidents. Other financial institutions are subject to controls. Only authorized dealers in foreign currencies are permitted to maintain accounts abroad. Other credit institutions are generally not permitted to maintain these accounts, except for licensed merchant banks and tier 1 merchant banks. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are allowed to extend loans in foreign currency to nonresidents. A banking institution is, however, allowed to extend credit in ringgit to: (1) ind iv idua ls up to an aggregate of RM 200,000 for any purpose except to finance the acquisition or development of immovab le property in Malaysia; and (2) a bank or a stockbroking company that maintains an external account, provided that: (a) the total credit facilities of the borrowers from all banking institutions do not exceed RM 5 m i l l ion; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 533 (b) the credit facilities are used by (i) the nonresident stockbroker to finance fund ing gaps if there is a delay in receipt of funds from its nonresident clients for the payment of securities purchased on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange; and (ii) the nonresident correspondent bank to finance unforeseen or inadvertent fund ing gaps arising from the mismatching of receipts and payments through the external account. The extension of loans in ringgit to nonresidents exceeding the amounts or for purposes other than those stipulated above requires the prior permission of the COFE. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers and merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Purchases are allowed, provided that the issuance of the securities has been approved. The criteria in determining banks' net overnight foreign currency open position limits are based on a matrix that takes into account their shareholders' funds and dealing capacity. Insurance companies are prohibited from holding foreign assets except under the follow- ing circumstances: (1) such investment funds would be derived only from premiums received from the insurer's offshore business; (2) such foreign assets are maintained solely to meet foreign liabilities arising from an insurer's insurance or reinsurance busi- ness overseas; (3) the foreign assets should not be more than the amount reasonably required for meeting liabilities in foreign currency after taking into account expected cash flow; and (4) the COFE approves the transactions. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Insurance companies are required to invest at least 80% of their insurance funds in authorized Malaysian assets as specified in the Second Schedule of the Insurance Act (1963). Other controls imposed by securities laws Employee Provident Fund (EPF) investment in foreign securities is subject to the ap- proval of the Minister of Finance. There are no specific regulations governing foreign investment of the EPF. However, the EPF is required to invest a m in imum of 50% of its annual investible funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total investment. Unit trust funds can invest up to 10% of the fund 's net asset value in securities listed on foreign stock exchanges. Prior approval from the Securities Commission is required for such investment. There are no restrictions on foreign firms trading in the corporate debt, equity, and de- rivative market. However, the following transactions require approval of the FIC: (1) any proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (2) company or business in any merger and takeover in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests; and (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding in value RM 5 m i l- lion, whether by Malaysians or foreign interests. Foreign companies with no substantial business operations in Malaysia are not normally granted listing on the local stock exchange. Changes During 1996 Resident accounts November 15. The maximum overnight l im it for export accounts was increased to $10 m i l l ion from $5 m i l l ion. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 1. The threshold for the completion of the statistical forms for each remittance to or receipt of funds from nonresidents was raised to RM 100,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency from amounts exceeding RM 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Maldives is the rufiyaa. (Rf 1 per 100 laari). Exchange rate structure Yes. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate is determined by demand and supply in the market, although the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) may intervene when appropriate. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Foreign currency must be converted to rufiyaa through a bank or a licensed money changer authorized by the MMA. No. No. Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES Nonresident Accounts 535 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Judicial and natural persons are eligible. No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may only be conducted after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Open general licenses All goods may be imported under an open general license (OGL) system. Licenses are issued on application. Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Licenses with quotas All private sector imports of rice, wheat flour, and sugar are subject to a quota. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Duties are levied on all merchandise items other than rice, flour, and sugar. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, w i th the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. n.a. Quotas for exports of aquarium fish have been in effect since 1982. Exports o f f i sh and fish products and reexports are exempt from duties. However, a 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 MALDIVES Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Although no law prohibits these purchases, there is a restriction on the foreign purchase of shares placed by some companies that have floated their securities. There is a regulation that prevents raising capital through public offering; however, it does not discriminate against foreign participation, but requires majority government interest and control in operations. n.a. No. Investments require prior approval from the government. Investors are required to pro- vide at least 75% of their capital investment in cash or goods financed from outside Maldives. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc at the rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. There is no exchange tax, but foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp tax. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Minis- try of Finance and Commerce (MFC). For certain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to 3 months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. There are no prescription of currency re- quirements for transfers to non-WAEMU franc zone countries. n.a. Yes. The MFC has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain ex- change control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. No. No. Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ru l- ing by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affa irs of the MFC, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization from the MFC but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, in c lud ing bank dom ic i l ia t ion, customs decla- ration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Travelers may export gold jew- elry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a max imum weight of 500 grams. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 MALI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries are not allowed to take out BCEAO banknotes. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 requires documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes, their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within 8 days. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Domiciliation requirements A domiciliation requirement exists for all imports exceeding CFAF 500,000. Preshipment inspection An inspection for quality and price is required. Letters of credit Letters of credit are required for imports of goods outside EU, Operations Account, and ACP countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 539 Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures There are no import licensing requirements, but imports are required to be registered, and permits are issued automatically. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports are subject to a customs duty (up to 5%), a fiscal duty (up to 25%), and a cus- toms service fee (5%). Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and based on c.i.f. values. Petroleum is subject to a variable levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5% to 55%, which were temporarily suspended in 1994. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, inc lud ing those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the payment due date or w i th in 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. No. Yes. All exports require only a certificate of registration. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not requ ire authorization. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, or interest. Payments for travel, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, and the use of credit cards abroad are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Prior approval is required for payments for subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, remittances of profits and dividends, and the use of credit cards abroad. Profit/dividends Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits MFC approval is needed for travel outside the CFA franc zone and for allowances in excess of the limits. CFA 500,000 a t r ip for tourist travel and CFAF 2,750,000 for business travel (includes allowance for tourist travel). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 MALI Medical costs Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits n.a. The transfer of salaries is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in 3 months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Credit cards must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and authorized banks. Limits are the same as for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds, except those from transactions with France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Mali and France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions. Capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the MFC and are restricted, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Commercial credits Special controls apply for borrowing outside the region. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 541 By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are allowed if the borrower has the financial capacity to contract them. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no regulations on opening foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Exchange arrangements June 1. Mali accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Malta is the Maltese lira. Malta has 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the ECU. Unless market conditions indicate otherwise, a spread of 0.25% is applied to the middle rate to com- pute the buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and the credit institutions (authorized banks). These transactions may be con- ducted in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars in amounts of less than Lm 150,000. Transactions in smaller amounts are handled through the interbank market. There is no l im it on the spread between the buying and selling rates the credit institu- tions may quote. Authorized banks may also establish rates for currencies not quoted by the CBM based on the latest international market rates. No. The subsidy is in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate of the pound sterling provided temporarily by the CBM to tour operators from the United Kingdom. This arrangement is to be terminated in May 1997. Forward exchange market Yes. Official cover of forward operations The CBM provides forward cover directly to government departments and public sector bodies in respect of such transactions. Forward rates are based on interest rate differen- tials between market rates and international money market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an exter- nal account or in any foreign currency, while the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in any foreign currency. There is an agreement with Libya with outstanding balances being settled in convertible currencies w i th in 90 days. The CBM, as agent for the Minister of Finance (MOF), administers exchange controls. Approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the credit institutions. Authority to approve specified foreign exchange payments has also been delegated to a number of foreign exchange bureaus. The CBM is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 543 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Certain restrictions on payments and transfers to Iraq and Libya remain in force in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Other Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are allowed to hold coins and acquire jewelry but must obtain permission from the CBM to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bu l l ion solely for the manufacture of gold articles. The importation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genuine numismatic purposes. With the exception of gold and silver filigree, the importation of which is still restricted, the requirement of an import license has been removed as of February 1997 for gold coins, gold bu l l ion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold and silver. The exportation of nonmanufactured gold by residents other than the monetary authori- ties also requires exchange control permission. Travelers may export up to Lm 25 a person. Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount they b r ing in. Resi- dents may export up to Lm 2,500 a trip. W i thout the authorization of the MOF, only Lm 50 in notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta may be imported. Subject to the provisions of the Money Laundering Act (1994), any amount of foreign currency may be imported in connection with current capital transactions. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Residents may invest up to Lm 5,000 a year in these accounts w i thout pr ior approval. Export companies may deposit export proceeds in these accounts for a max imum period of 4 months. Approval is not required if amounts do not exceed the portfolio investment l im it or if the deposited funds are repatriated funds. Subject to exchange control permission, jur id ical and natural persons may maintain savings and demand deposit accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 MALTA Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with funds from overseas sources or with income earn- ings from permitted activities carried out in Malta. Domestic currency accounts The same criteria as for foreign exchange accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that currency regula- tions are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form for imports over Lm 20,000 and related import license, where applicable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures The Director of Imports and Internal Trade in the Ministry for Economic Services ad- ministrates trade controls. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Imports of fresh and frozen fish are controlled. Licenses are required for the importation of items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons, as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as fresh and frozen fish, and lace. Other products may be imported without an import license, n.a. No. The importation of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, and certain petroleum products is undertaken only by state-owned enterprises. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i th in 6 months of shipment. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. However, exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks for up to 4 months to make import payments connected with their exporting business. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must submit customs documentation forms for exports over Lm 20,000. Export licenses Without quotas With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all products can be ex- ported freely. Certain textile products for export to countries in the EU require licenses for monitoring purposes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, interest, commissions, medical costs, study abroad, sub- scriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gambling and prizes earnings, remittances of profits and dividends or for the use of credit cards abroad. There are no restrictions on payments for accommodation and transportation expenses, as long as they are paid for in Malta or abroad with credit cards. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 545 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Residents are entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 2,500 a trip. Amounts in excess of the above limit may be granted upon submission of documentary proof of need. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits The annual l im it each resident may transfer abroad to other family members or as a cash gift is Lm 2,500. Remittances above this limit require exchange control approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within 6 months of payments. Surrender requirements Receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or, if permitted by the CBM, deposited in a foreign currency account under the same conditions as those stipulated for exporters. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval from the CBM must be obtained to purchase or acquire securities that are not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange. Such approval is not required for portfolio invest- ment undertaken by nonresidents in the form of bank deposits, government treasury bills, and securities listed on the Malta Stock Exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities may not be issued without the approval of the Malta Financial Services Centre (MFSC). Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Individuals and companies are permitted to invest up to Lm 5,000 a year. Any invest- ment above that amount requires exchange control approval. Repatriated funds and in- surance payments to residents received from nonresident sources are eligible for investment overseas. Residents are permitted to sell their approved holdings of foreign portfolio investments and acquire other such investments. However, they are not permitted to issue securities overseas without CBM approval. Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Same regulations as for money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Investments in these instruments are very limited. Same regulations as for money market instruments apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Exchange control approval is not required for commercial credits, but export proceeds must be received w i th in 6 months of shipment, unless otherwise authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 Financial credits MALTA By residents to nonresidents Loans require approval. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Loans in excess of Lm 5,000 may be obtained from foreign sources, provided that the loan is for a period of over 3 years and related documentation is submitted for registra- tion purposes. Borrowing in excess of Lm 5,000 for a period of less than 3 years' ma- turity is subject to CBM approval. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are allowed if related to trade transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Residents, both individuals and companies, are allowed to remit up to Lm 150,000 a year for direct investment purposes. Investments in excess of that amount require CBM approval. Prior CBM approval is required. Such authorization is denied only in exceptional cases. Direct investment is usually prohibited if the investment is in the real estate, wholesale, and retail trade sectors (particularly the importation of consumer goods for resale). Applications for direct investment in other activities may also be refused if the sectors involved are considered sensitive from a local economy perspective. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The remittance of proceeds requires CBM approval, which is usually granted once documentary evidence of the original investment is submitted. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents CBM approval is required; the CBM considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to purchase real estate overseas using funds already held in port- folio investments abroad. Nonresidents may acquire immovable property in Malta as their own residence, with the permission of the MOF, on the condition that the cost of property to be acquired ex- ceeds Lm 15,000 and that funds originate from overseas. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Credit institutions, other than offshore banks, as well as certain financial institutions, may hold foreign assets up to a limit specified by the CBM; this limit is exclusive of foreign assets held as a hedge against foreign currency liabilities. Borrowing abroad Such borrowings have to be registered with the CBM. Maintenance of accounts abroad Credit institutions may hold accounts subject to portfolio limits. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending and purchases of securities abroad are permitted, subject to banking directives on large exposures and as long as foreign asset portfolio limits are not exceeded. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is permitted, subject to the foreign asset portfolio limits stipulated by the CBM. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements, however, are not applicable in the case of credit institutions car- rying out the business of banking exclusively with nonresident customers (that is, off- shore banks). Open foreign exchange position limits There are quantitative limits set by the CBM, which are revised from time to time. Dif- ferent limits apply to individual banks. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Investments of funds that originate from overseas or from resident sources, as long as the latter do not exceed the yearly portfolio investment allowance, are permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 547 Resident insurance companies have limits imposed by the CBM on the size of their for- eign asset portfolio. These limits are revised from time to time. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Same regulations as for portfolio investments abroad apply. Capital transactions Changes During 1996 January I. The limit on direct investment abroad was raised to Lrn 150,000 a year from Lm 50,000 a year. March 29. Residents were allowed to take out life insurance policies in foreign currency with nonresidents lawfully carrying out in Malta the business of life insurance. Both the initial subscription and the annual premiums are not to exceed the portfolio investment limit of Lm 5,000 a year currently granted to residents over 18 years of age. Imports and import payments February 4. The requirement of a license for the importation of gold coins, gold bu l l ion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold and silver was removed. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Currency The currency of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by 3 commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory banking board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Outward and inward payments may be settled in U.S. currency or in any other con- vertible currency. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports No. No. n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 25% of deposits re- ceived from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Approval required n.a. 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 549 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are proh ib i ted for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Imports are not subject to import licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied on imports. Ad valorem duties range from 5% to 75%. Most items are charged a 10% tariff rate, wh i le a 5% rate is applied to food items, medicines, bu i ld ing materials, and heavy machinery. Specific duties are applied on cigarettes, certain beverages, and fuels. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports are not subject to l icens ing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the government-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 MARSHALL ISLANDS Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Foreign investors are required to submit applications to the Cabinet and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. Yes. n.a. Foreigners are prohibited from owning land, but investors can obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years with an option to renew on land needed for their business. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mauritania is the ouguiya. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate for the ouguiya is market determined. The Central Bank of Maurita- nia (CBM) sells foreign currency notes and traveler's checks only for official travel and for other exceptional purposes at a commission of 1.75%. Only intermediary banks and foreign exchange bureaus licensed by the CBM are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange. Authorized banks and exchange bureaus are free to set their commissions for foreign currency transactions. The source of foreign exchange need not be declared, and foreign exchange may be purchased anonymously. Hotels, shipping companies, travel agencies, and similar businesses may buy banknotes and traveler's checks in foreign currencies under the control of a licensed intermediary bank, but these entities are not authorized to sell such means of payments to the pub l ic and must surrender any foreign exchange they have purchased to the bank that granted them the "delegated" authoriza- tion. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances through the Postal Administration by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Adm in is tra t ion of control is vested in the CBM, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Exchange control authority to approve current international transactions is delegated to authorized banks and foreign exchange bu- reaus. All imports require exchange control approval from the CBM. n.a. n.a. All imports and exports of gold, except manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold, require prior authorization from the CBM. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 MAURITANIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes and coins. Residents are authorized to export foreign exchange obtained legally and must provide documentation to prove the source. Nonresidents of foreign nationality may freely ex- port payment instruments denominated in foreign currencies in amounts up to those declared upon entry, less amounts surrendered in exchange for ouguiya in the m in imum lump sum of UM 10,000 a day. Prior to their departure, these nonresidents may repur- chase foreign exchange from banks and bureaus if they have surrendered foreign ex- change dur ing their stay in amounts exceeding the m in imum lump sum. Nonresident holders of foreign accounts denominated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiya may export any traveler's checks denominated in foreign currencies that have been pur- chased by debit to the aforementioned accounts. Imports are not allowed. Residents and nonresidents of Mauritania can freely import foreign banknotes but must exchange them at an authorized bank within 15 days of arrival. Nonresident foreign nationals must declare imported foreign banknotes in excess of $2,000; they can reex- port the declared amount m inus the equivalent of UM 10,000 for each day of their stay. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Exporters holding import-export permits may open these accounts to deposit the re- tained portion of their export proceeds in foreign exchange. These accounts may be debited for expenses relating to exporters' production activities or for surrender of for- eign exchange to the market. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may freely open accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Licensed intermediary banks may open freely the following nonresident accounts: (1) nonresident convertible accounts, which may be denominated in foreign currencies or in convertible ouguiya, and transit accounts. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad or from another foreign account; proceeds from the encashment of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on another foreign account opened in a Mauritanian bank to the order of the account holder; transfers issued by a licensed intermediary bank by order of a resident in payment of transactions authorized by the exchange control regulations; and proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange on account on the foreign exchange market (however, banknotes, whether foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for foreign ex- change surrendered on the foreign exchange market, funds made available abroad, with- drawals of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign currency by the holder, transfers in favor of another foreign account or a resident, checks issued by the holder of the ac- count in favor of another nonresident or a resident, and withdrawals of banknotes issued ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 553 Domestic currency accounts by the CBM; and (2) transit accounts, which may be opened freely by resident consign- ees on their books in the name of shipping companies. Convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited in the same manner as foreign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements No. n.a. Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports require the prior approval of the CBM. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company. Holders of import-export permits are exempted from the domiciliation requirement. Imports by nonholders of import-export permits are subject to the approval of the MOC, and import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit n.a. n.a. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Upon presentation of the import certificate approved by the CBM, the importer may purchase the foreign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures The holders of import-export permits must have a certificate that is endorsed by the CBM. Nonholders of import-export permits are subject to the authorization of the MOC. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Yes. n.a. There is a general customs duty of 15% and a reduced rate of 5% on selected goods. Certain capital goods, various consumer goods (e.g., tea, salt, medicines) are exempt. All imports from the WAEC that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt from customs duties, as are some imports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the EU. In addition to the customs duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5% to 166%, with various exemptions. A turnover tax is levied at rates ranging from 10% to 20% (with exemptions). A regional cooperation tax is levied on certain indus- trial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of customs duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports of iron ore, which are the monopoly of the National Industrial and M in ing Company, enjoy a special exemption to the repatria- tion of export proceeds. The surrender requirement is 70%: 30% to the CBM and 40% to the market. The re- maining 30% may be retained in foreign currency accounts for up to 30 days, after wh ich it must be converted in the market for ouguiya. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 MAURITANIA Documentation requirements Export certificates submitted to the CBM for approval must specify the quantity, value, and destination of all goods. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation n.a. n.a. Exports exceeding UM 20,000 must be domiciled, Preshipment inspection n.a. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of goods by holders of import-export cards require only a certificate endorsed by the CBM. Exports by nonholders of this card are subject to the authorization of the MOC. Yes. n.a. A tax is levied on exports o f f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for specialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for shrimp and crayfish. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments The signing of a contract for services rendered by nonresidents to residents is subject to the CBM's endorsement; foreign exchange necessary to pay for their services may be acquired upon presentation of the endorsed contract and a bill of costs. Payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, consulting and legal fees, family maintenance and alimony, interest pay- ments, and remittances of profits and dividends require prior approval and are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Amounts in excess of the limit are subject to the prior approval of the CBM. The l im it is UM 15,000 a day for the duration of the stay abroad. Indicative Hmits/bona fide test For travel purposes, residents may freely purchase banknotes and traveler's checks de- nominated in foreign currencies upon presentation of their passport and a travel ticket. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 4 months. Surrender requirements Earnings from services routinely rendered abroad by residents must be domiciled at a licensed intermediary bank. Proceeds must be surrendered in exchange for ouguiya un- der the same conditions as proceeds from exports of goods. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements are subject to exchange control. Outward capital transfers require CBM approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 555 Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Controls on direct investment Investments must be declared to the CBM before they are made. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Currency The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy The rupee/U.S. dollar exchange rate is determined by the interbank market. No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to their clients. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Maur i t ius maintains a bilateral agreement with Madagascar. n.a. Regional arrangements Maur i t ius is a member of the PTA Clearing House. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. n.a. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The Bank of Mauritius (BOM) issues foreign exchange dealing licenses to commercial banks who act as authorized dealers and money changer licenses. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for issuing import permits where necessary. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as personal jewelry and ornaments. Controls on external trade The BOM is the sole importer of pure gold for sale to jewelers and industrialists. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonres iden ts in Mau r i t ius. Resident Accounts 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 557 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed. n.a. Controlled goods requ ire import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Yes. n.a. Duty rates range up to 100%, with most items subject to rates up to 20%. Certain items are subject to import excise duties ranging from 15% to 400%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly The State Trading Corporation has a monopoly on imports of petroleum products. The State Trading Corporation and a private company share the monopoly on imports of cement. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements In August 1996, the percentage of sugar export proceeds that had to be sold to the BOM was reduced to 75% from 100%. The remaining 25% is sold by the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate at an auction, at wh ich commercial banks and the BOM may participate. F inanc ing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 MAURITIUS Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas A permit is required for exports of textile products to the United States and Canada. n.a. Mauritius maintains quotas on exports of textiles and clothing to the United States and Canada under bilateral export restraint agreements. Sugar exports to the EU are re- stricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention. Sugar exports to the United States are also under quotas. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Noncitizens must obtain the permission of the Minister of Internal Affairs to acquire and hold property. The purchase must be financed by funds transferred from abroad through banks. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) n.a. n.a. n.a. Lending locally in foreign exchange Offshore banks may lend to both residents and nonresidents in foreign currencies, Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 559 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Exports and export proceeds August 1. The 100% surrender requirement to the BOM for sugar export proceeds was changed to 75% surrender to the BOM and 25% surrender to the interbank auction. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Currency The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Mexican peso is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. On August 7, 1996, the Bank of Mexico (BOM) introduced a scheme to purchase for- eign exchange from the market without abandoning the commitment to the floating rate system. Under the scheme, the BOM holds monthly auctions of options, g iv ing financial institutions the right to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM in exchange for Mexican pesos. The options, which are va l id for a 1-month period, can be exercised at the discretion of the holders, provided that the rate of exchange is no more depreciated than the average rate over the preceding 20 work ing days. The monthly auction amount was set at $130 m i l l ion; the amount was increased to $200 m i l l ion on September 30, 1996, and to $300 m i l l ion on January 31, 1997. The BOM doubled the potential amount of options auctioned each month to $600 mil- lion on February 19, 1997. If 80% ($240 m i l l ion out of $300 m i l l ion max imum) of the options to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM is exercised within the first 16 days of the month, the BOM w i ll conduct a second auction of options for up to another $300 m i l- lion. The BOM also announced that it would be prepared to auction (sell) up to $200 m i l l ion a day in the foreign market, but wou ld accept only those bids that are at least 2% more depreciated (in terms of Mexican pesos per U.S. dollar) than the fix of the previous day. No. No. Forward cover is available from authorized commercial banks. There is an over-the- counter market in forwards and options in foreign exchange. In addition, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange trades fu ture contracts on the peso. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In accordance with payments agreements with the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the BOM and the central bank of the country concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Similar payments arrangements exist with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. There is an arrangement with the central bank of Malaysia. Regional arrangements Yes. 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 561 Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Commercial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars payable in Mexico only for (1) residents in the northern border area of Mexico, (2) firms domiciled in Mexico in any part of the country, and (3) official representatives of for- eign governments and international organizations and foreigners working in these insti- tutions. In case of time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars, commercial banks are permitted to open accounts for firms established in Mexico but are payable only abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI) are required for only 179 of the 11,285 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for 9 months and may be extended for 3 months. Import needs are estimated at 20% above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when jus t i f ied. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70% of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, a l low ing imports to be effected dur ing a period of 6 months to 1 year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 MEXICO Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes renewed repeatedly. Imports of new cars of a given manufacturer are limited to 143% of export levels of the same manufacturer. Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the SECOFI. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import tariffs range from zero to 20%, with higher rates for some products (clothing, footwear, and leather goods are subject to a 35% tariff). Imports from members of LAIA are granted preferential duty treatment and there are free trade zones in place in certain regions. Free trade agreements exist with Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, and Venezuela. Trade with the United States and Canada takes place under NAFTA. Mexico has applied antidumping duties on a variety of products: corrugated rod from Brazil; doorknobs, footwear, tools, chinaware, and chemical products from China; bicycle tires from India; beef from the EU; and metal sheets, steel sheets, metal plates, seamless tubes, and pipes from the United States. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to endan- gered species and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Export taxes are limited to only a few items such as sugar, corn flour, turtle oil, and electricity, among others. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. The purchasing of personal insurance policies abroad is not restricted, but casualty insurance policies intended to cover events that will take place in Mexico may be contracted only with Mexican companies, including sub- sidiaries of foreign insurance companies established in Mexico. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Capital Transactions 563 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. There are restrictions on the purchase by securities firms for their own account and by financial institutions. Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act, only documents registered in the National Registry of Securities and Intermediaries (NRSI) may be offered pub l ic ly. There are restrictions on purchases by securities firms for their own account and by financial institutions. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to registration with the NRSI. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Only documents registered in the NRSI may be offered publicly. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to registration with the NRSI. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The holder, who is the beneficiary of the right consigned in the document, may be for- eign persons or corporations. In th is case, the aforementioned persons may only acquire warrants when the unde r ly ing securities are of the free subscription type or related to a neutral investment trust authorized by the National Banking and Securities Commission (NBSC). The warrants should be issued with reference to shares registered on the Mexican Stock Exchange and portfolios of representatives; shares of the capital of corporations should be registered on the Mexican Stock Exchange. In addition, it is required that the issuer of the derivative be a corporation w i th shares registered at the NRSI. The Secretariat of Finance and Pub l ic Credit (SHCP) establishes a ceiling on the amount that credit institutions are allowed to lend to each borrower. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents There are limits on credits denominated in foreign currency. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are l im i ts on credits denominated in foreign currency. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment A l though there exists no restriction in this respect, the Mexican government reserves the right to introduce foreign exchange control measures that may affect outward direct investment. Investments are normally allowed up to 100% of equity without prior authorization, with certain exceptions: (1) Investments in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydro- carbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 MEXICO minerals; communication via satellite; telegraph; radiotelegraphy; postal service; rail- roads; issue of paper money; m in t ing of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, airports, and heliports; (2) Investments in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican nationals or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and l iquef ied petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting, with the exception of cable television; road transport (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit un ions and development banks; and certain professional and technical services. However, foreign investors w ish ing to invest in these activities may acquire shares in companies engaged in these sectors through the Neutral Investment Mechanism; (3) Investments in the fo l low ing sectors require pr ior authorization: acquisition of more than 49% of the equity in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets exceeds $25 m i l l ion; mar i t ime transport and certain port services; administration of air terminals; cellular telephones; construction activities, inc lud ing the construction of pipelines for oil and its derivatives; oil and gas dr i l l ing; legal services; private education; credit informa- tion; securities rating institutions; and insurance agents. In order to obtain prior authori- zation, investors must submit their proposals to the National Commission of Foreign Investment. Approval is automatic if a formal response is not made w i th in 45 working days of the date of application. In reaching its decision, the commission takes into ac- count the impact of investments on employment and training of workers, the techno- logical contribution, compliance w i th env ironmen tal provisions in relevant laws, and the contribution to the economy; and (4) Ceilings on foreign ownership are applied to the fo l low ing sectors: financial institu- tions; air transportation; manufac tur ing of explosives and firearms; pr in t ing and publi- cation of domestic newspapers; agricultural land; cable television and basic telephone services; video text and packet-switching services; and transportation by air and land, and certain activities related to maritime transport. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions The restrictions are the fo l low ing: (1) the acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate outside a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50- kilometer strip inland from the Mexican coast, provided the investor agrees to consider himself Mexican and to refra in from invok ing the protection of the investor's govern- ment regarding the property thus acquired; and (2) the acquisition by foreign nonresi- dents of real estate through a real estate trust w i th in the zone defined above. Borrowing abroad Borrowing abroad is permitted subject to open foreign exchange position limits. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks can maintain accounts abroad but must maintain an equ i l ib r ium between their positions in foreign exchange and domestic currency. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) The SHCP establishes a ceiling on the amount that credit ins t i tu t ions are allowed to lend to each borrower. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign currencies but the debt may be discharged by de l iver ing the equ iva lent amount in accordance to the rate of exchange in domestic currency. The l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denominated in foreign currency must not exceed the larger amount of either (1) 10% of the daily balances of their l iab i l i t ies in the previous quarter p lus an additional 4% of such l iab i l i t ies if those resources are used to finance foreign trade transactions or capital goods purchases, or (2) 1.6 times the net capital of the institution. Commercial banks must balance their positions in foreign cur- rency on a daily basis subject to covered exchange rate risk, irrespective of the residence of the lender. Short and long positions are acceptable as long as they do not exceed 15% of the bank 's net capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors MEXICO 565 Insurance companies can operate with nonresidents including in the following areas: (1) administer the reserves retained from domestic or foreign insurance companies corre- sponding to reinsurance operations; (2) foreign investment of technical reserves corre- sponding to operations that take place abroad; and (3) constitute banking deposits abroad. There are 3 types of mutual funds: (1) variable-income mutual funds in which foreign per- sons and corporations can acquire representative shares of mutual funds as well as foreign financial entities and groups of foreign persons; (2) fixed-income mutual funds in which representative shares of this type of mutual funds can be acquired by foreign persons and corporations, foreign financial entities, and groups of foreign corporations; and (3) capital- risk mutual funds in which the representative shares of these kinds of funds may be ac- quired by foreigners, persons, and corporations, provided that this participation does not exceed 49% of the shares of the respective mutual fund. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Mutual funds portfolios may not be invested abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangements Changes During 1996 August 7. The BOM introduced a scheme to purchase foreign exchange from the market without abandoning the commitment to the floating rate system. Under the scheme, the BOM holds monthly auctions of options up to $130 million, giving financial institutions the right to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM in exchange for Mexican pesos. The options, which are valid for a 1-month period, can be exercised at the discretion of the holders, provided that the rate of exchange is no more depreciated than the average rate over the preceding 20 working days. September 30. The BOM increased the amount of options auctions to $200 m i l l ion. Imports and import payments August 13. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on chinaware from China. August 21. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on metal sheets from the United States. August 28. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on footwear from China. September 5. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on beef from the European Union. October 17. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on chemical products and tools from China. November 1. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on bicycle tires from India. November 8. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs on metal plates from the United States. October 7. The BOM removed the prohibition on national credit institutions to carry passive operations in domestic currency with foreign financial institutions and foreign exchange houses. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Exchange arrangements January 31. The BOM increased the amount of options auctions to $300 million a day. February 19. Two modifications to the exchange rate system were introduced. First, the BOM doubled the potential amount of options auctioned each month to $600 m i l l ion. If 80% ($240 m i l l ion out of $300 m i l l ion maximum) of the options to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM is exercised w i th in the first 16 days of the month, the BOM w i ll conduct a second auction of options for up to another $300 m i l l ion. Second, the BOM also an- nounced that it would be prepared to auction (sell) up to $200 m i l l ion a day in the for- eign market, but would accept only those bids that are at least 2% more depreciated (in terms of Mexican pesos per U.S. dollar) than the fix of the previous day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 24, 1993. Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by 3 commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory banking board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. 566 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 567 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Export licenses Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or specific basis as follows: cigarettes, car- bonated nonalcoholic beverages, drink mixes and preparations, coffee, tea, beer, malt beverages, and wines, 25%; spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $10 per U.S. gal- lon; and gasoline and diesel fuel, 50 per U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties are 3% on foodstuffs, 100% on laundry bar soap, and 4% on all other products. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The purchasing and exportation of copra and dried coconut meat yielding coconut oil are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions n.a. Banks are prohibited from lending more than the equivalent of 50% of their deposits to nonresidents. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities n.a. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign investors must obtain an application from the federal government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business w i ll be located. They must obtain a license from the federal government to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and submitted to the Federal Investment Board of each of the states in which the business will be located and oper- ated. Priorities for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with the laws prohibiting landownership by foreigners. Foreign investors normally ob- tain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land needed for their business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 50% of deposits re- ceived from residents. In practice, the regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Un t il November 28, 1996, the official exchange rates against the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble were established in the daily fixing sessions at the Interbank Foreign Cur- rency Exchange of Moldova (IFCEM). Effective November 29, 1996, only the rate against the U.S. dollar started to be quoted in the daily fixing sessions. The official ex- change rate is used for accounting and tax valuation purposes. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in any currency. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements No. Regional arrangements Moldova is a member of the Payments Un ion w i th in the CIS. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) has the ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. n.a. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or The Ministry of Finance (MOF) establishes regulations governing domestic trade, trade Controls on external trade A license from the MOF is required to conduct international trade in gold. 569 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 MOLDOVA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The export limit is MDL 500; for exports to Romania the limit is MDL 2,500. For freely convertible currencies, the limit is $50,000 upon presentation of a customs declaration for the importation of the currency or approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. Without these documents, the limit is $5,000 for residents and as much as was imported or received from abroad for nonresidents. For nonconvertible currencies, there are no limits. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Juridical persons may open 1 account in a freely convertible currency and 1 account each in nonconvertible currencies. Natural persons Natural persons may open an account only in a freely convertible currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at author- ized banks. Account holders may not use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle domestic transactions. Approval by the MOF is required only for organizations included in the budget. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval from the NBM is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts may be used for current international transactions and for capital trans- actions, in accordance with the law on Foreign Investment. Approval from the NBM is required for capital transactions. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresidents with foreign currency deposits at authorized banks in Moldova may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks. Accounts in Moldovan lei may be opened by nonresidents from CIS countries with ap- proval from the central bank of the relevant country. Other nonresidents may open ac- counts in Moldovan lei at authorized banks in Moldova if the funds were received from selling foreign exchange in the foreign exchange market in Moldova or as a result of selling goods, providing services, or other labor. Nonresidents may convert Moldovan lei into foreign exchange provided the lei were received as a result of a current international transaction, with the exception of Moldo- van lei received from selling restricted currencies (for CIS countries and Romania). For nonresident natural persons, conversion into a freely convertible currency is allowed if the foreign currency was previously imported or transferred into Moldova and sold to a bank, and customs 4pcuments showing that the foreign currency had been imported into Moldova are submitted to the purchasing bank. These are accounts of juridical persons blocked by the U.S.S.R. Vnesheconombank in 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs MOLDOVA 571 Imports and Import Payments No. No. If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated into Moldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was made. A contract with a nonresident is required. Imports of medicine, medical equipment, chemicals, and industrial waste are subject to licensing for the purpose of protecting the consumer and ensuring compliance with do- mestic standards. There are 6 tariff bands, with the maximum tariff applied to consumer electronics, cars, tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, cocoa products, jewelry, and luxury furn i ture. Energy, medicine, medical equipment, raw materials, cereals, and baby food are exempt from tariffs. Customs fees are also applied. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issuance of the custom declaration or from the date of a b i l l, statement, or protocol confirming that services have been rendered or work done. However, the NBM can extend the period for a valid reason. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements A declaration on the repatriation of foreign exchange proceeds is required. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of goods considered important are subject to licenses. n.a. n.a. There are no taxes on exports to non-CIS countries except for a customs fee of 0.25% of the value of the shipment. Exports to CIS countries are subject to excise taxes and VAT, as these taxes are assessed on the basis of the origin pr inc ip le w i th in the CIS. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments In general, for payments in freely convertible currencies of up to $1,000, a natural per- son must show a supporting document. For payments for medical costs, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, and family maintenance and alimony over $1,000, approval by the NBM is required. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, interest payments, profits and dividends, foreign workers' wages, and pensions. Administrative expenses Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 MOLDOVA Commissions Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval For amounts in freely convertible currencies in excess of $5,000 a trip, a resident unable to produce evidence of the currency's importation or receipt from abroad must obtain prior approval. Quantitative limits Residents may export up to $5,000 of freely convertible currencies. Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies for treatment upon presentation of supporting documents. Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies for education costs upon presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies. Yes. Residents may export up to $5,000. Nonresidents are not permitted to transfer prize earnings abroad. Quantitative limits Residents may transfer up to $1,000 of freely convertible currencies, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Credit card use abroad Issuance of credit cards against accounts of juridical persons is allowed, and issuance of debit cards against type "A" accounts of natural persons is allowed. Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Capital Transactions Registration of the importation of capital and licensing of its exportation are required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the NBM is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 573 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the NBM is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of state securities is subject to licensing of the MOF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the NBM is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the NBM is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the NBM is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the NBM is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the NBM is required. Controls on credit operations Loan agreements with nonresidents are required to be registered with the NBM. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. To residents from nonresidents The agreement should be registered with the NBM. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. To residents from nonresidents Contracts must be registered with the NBM. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Contracts must be registered with the NBM. By residents to nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. To residents from nonresidents Contracts must be registered with the NBM. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Licensing by the NBM is required. Inward direct investment Registration with the NBM is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 MOLDOVA Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration is required, Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the NBM is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad For type "B" and "C" banking licenses (with aggregate normative capital of more than MDL 8 million) no restriction applies to accounts in freely convertible currency, but approval of the NBM is required for accounts in nonconvertible currencies. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Licensing by the NBM is required. Authorized banks are permitted to lend in freely convertible currencies only to importers that are resident juridical persons. Securities denominated in foreign exchange are not issued. Uniform reserve requirements of 8% apply to local currency and foreign currency deposits. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 30% of the bank's liabilities for demand deposits. Credit controls Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits For each type of currency, the limit is 10% of the aggregate normative capital, and the aggregate limit is 25% of the aggregate normative capital. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Licensing by the NBM is required. Registration with the NBM is required. Other controls imposed by securities laws Investors and primary dealers are prohibited from purchasing more than 35% of a single issue of government securities. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Capital transactions November 28. The mechanism for quoting the exchange rate of the Moldovan leu was changed; the official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is set in the daily fixing ses- sions. Rates for other convertible currencies are determined on the basis of their U.S. dollar cross rates in the international market. May 17. Resident companies were required to obtain NBM permission for providing loans in foreign currency. Capital transactions February 1. Reserve requirements solely in Moldovan lei for liabilities of commercial banks in freely convertible currencies were introduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mongolia is the tugrik. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating In principle, the official exchange rate of the tugrik is set daily by the Bank of Mongolia (BoM) as the m idpo int of the previous day's average buy ing and selling rates estab- lished by transactions among participants in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, the volume of trading is very low, and the BoM currently adjusts the official rate only once a week rather than once a day. The official exchange rate is applied to pub l ic sector import and service payments, inc lud ing for debt service, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other trans- actions, inc lud ing sales of retained foreign exchange by pub l ic sector enterprises, take place through the interbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. The spread between commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates is limited to 1%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Trade with certain former members of the CMEA is conducted on an ad hoc basis under bilateral arrangements concluded before 1991. Some of the outstanding balances under the clearing arrangements of the former Inter- national Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) are still under negotiation. Under in- operative bilateral trade arrangements, there are also outstanding balances with China, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Mongolia maintains a bilateral clearing agreement w i th the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea. International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law (1994). Mongolia notified the IMF on November 4, 1994, that restrictions had been imposed on certain transactions with the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions n.a. 575 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 MONGOLIA Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Producers of gold are required to sell all their output to the BoM. Controls on external trade The BoM has an exclusive right on external trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad and the balances may be used for any purpose without restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. However, registration with the State Registry is required for juridical persons. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. An excise tax of 100% is levied on imports of alcohol and cigarettes. Imports of drugs, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. Imports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requ ir ing licenses under international contracts and agreements require a special permit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 577 Import taxes and/or tariffs There is a un iform customs duty of 15%; imports of machinery and equipment by jo int ventures and equipment used by disabled people are exempt from the customs duty. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements require a special permit. The ban on exports of raw cashmere was lifted on July 1, 1996. With quotas Export taxes Yes. Export taxes apply to export of nonferrous and scrap metals. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Issue is prohibited. Issue is prohibited. Issue is prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 MONGOLIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Registration with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is required. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the BoM is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Registration with the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the BoM is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. Investment by private corporations is encouraged particularly in export promotion, proj- ects using advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign firms not be nationalized and that foreign investors w i ll have the right to dispose of their assets. The maximum rate of profit tax is 40%, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for 3 to 10 years, depending on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with foreign trade enterprises. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the BoM is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BoM permission is required. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of capital, including a subceiling of 10% for any individual currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities may be issued only by government institutions upon approval of the Great Hural or by companies registered in Mongolia. It is prohibited to lend securities. Any person owing 5% and above of total shares of any company must report it to the Securities Committee of the Great Hural within 5 days after acquisition. Any person who intends to own directly or indirectly 20% and above of total shares of any company must make a tender offer in accordance with Article 8 of the Securities Law of Mongolia. Changes During 1996 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exports and export proceeds February 1. Mongolia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. January 1. A tax on exports of nonferrous and scrap metals was introduced. July 1. The ban on exports of raw cashmere was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan d irham. Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemo- rative silver coins with a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Since June 1996, the exchange rate is determined freely in an interbank foreign ex- change market. Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM) intervenes in the market to maintain rates within a spread around the central rate. The central exchange rate of the Moroccan dirham is pegged to a basket of currencies comprising Morocco's principal trading part- ners, and weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. The BAM fixes daily rates for the rated currencies on the basis of variations in the value of the basket. Rates for most currencies quoted in Morocco are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the international exchange markets. No. No. Yes. The official forward foreign exchange cover facility was suspended in June 1996 fol- lowing the creation of the foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements No. Inoperative Arrangements w i th Mali and Guinea have been inoperative since the 1960s. Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There is a regional payment arrangement operated by the central banks of Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office (FEO), an agency under the Ministry of Finance and Foreign Investment. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and ex- port licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The restrictions have not been communicated to the Board. 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 MOROCCO In accordance with UN sanctions Morocco maintains restrictions for security reasons against Iraq and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or in- vestment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Directorate of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes Administration. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the im- portation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of exchange certificates up to the amount of the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. Residents may also export foreign banknotes fo l low ing general or special approval by the Exchange Office. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them w i th in 30 days of their return to Morocco. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Any Moroccan exporter of goods or services already holding a convertible export pro- motion account (CCPEX) is allowed to open a foreign exchange account. Those without a CCPEX must receive prior approval from the Exchange Office. Up to 20% of foreign exchange receipts may be credited to these accounts simultaneously w i th the sale of the remaining 80% to domestic banks. There is no restriction on crediting foreign exchange accounts either with the proceeds from financial investments held in the accounts or with transfers from another of the holder's foreign exchange accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for payment of business expenses as provided for in the exchange regulations, for investing in authorized intermediary banks, for subscribing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for crediting another foreign exchange account or a CCPEX held in the exporter's name, or for surrender of foreign currency to banks. Held abroad Approval is required, except for foreign nationals. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Exporters of goods and services may open accounts in convertible dirhams at Moroccan banks, which may be credited with the dirham equivalent of 20% of repatriated foreign currency sold to domestic banks. Funds in these accounts may be used to finance ex- penses incurred abroad and related to the holder's business activity. Fishing companies may place up to 100% of the dirham equivalent of their repatriated exchange receipts in these accounts. Exporters may choose either a foreign exchange account or a conver t ib le ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 581 export promotion account, or may hold both kinds, provided the overall percentage of repatriated foreign exchange receipts placed in the accounts does not exceed the 20% l im i t. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The fo l low ing accounts may be opened: (1) Foreign currency accounts in the names of foreign nationals may be maintained by natural or ju r id ical persons of foreign nationality who are either residents or nonresi- dents. These accounts may be freely credited w i th transfers from abroad with foreign banknotes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and with foreign currency withdrawn from domestic banks, fo l low ing general or special authorization from the FEO. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a foreign third party, for the surrender of foreign currency to domestic banks, and for the payment of checks denominated in for- eign currency. (2) Foreign currency accounts in the names of Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad may be opened by ind iv idu a ls of Moroccan nationality res id ing abroad. These accounts may be credited freely w i th transfers from abroad, checks or any other means of payment de- nominated in foreign currency, foreign currency w i thdrawn from domestic banks fol- lowing general or special authorization from the FEO, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or from an account in convertible dirhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams, for- eign currency subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for surren- der of foreign currency to domestic banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These are restricted to resident or nonresident natural and ju r id ical persons of foreign nationality, and may be freely credited with generally or specifically authorized trans- fers, and with dirhams obtained from the sale to banks of foreign exchange, inc lud ing banknotes. They may be freely debited for payments made in Morocco and for pur- chases of foreign exchange at banks. There are no restrictions on transfers between for- eign accounts in convertible dirhams, or on transfers to replenish these accounts. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards for settlement of all expenses in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonresident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) d irhams from the sale of convertible currencies, inc lud ing banknotes, to domestic banks; (2) transfers authorized by the FEO; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible d irham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from domestic banks; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benef it of the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign banknotes, trave ler's checks, or other fore ign-currency-denom ina ted means of payment. Conver t ib le d irham accounts for ex- porters may be opened by exporters of goods or services with Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited w i th the equ iva lent of 20% of the foreign currency repatriated and surrendered to domestic banks. Balances on these accounts may be used to finance expenditures contracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100% of the foreign currency repatriated. Exporters have the choice ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 MOROCCO of maintaining either foreign currency accounts or convertible dirham accounts. They may also hold both accounts simultaneously, provided that the overall percentage of export earnings to be credited to both accounts does not exceed 20% of foreign ex- change earnings. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresi- dent foreigners who are not entitled to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred henceforth w i th in a maximum period of 5 years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the FEO, to fund investments in Morocco; buy treasury bonds; purchase Moroccan mar- ketable securities; settle expenses incurred in Morocco; and, in the case of foreign cor- porations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroc- can nationals residing abroad. The beneficiaries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting f i lms in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50% of an investor's participation in investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a 3-year waiting period. No. No. Imports and Import Payments For all imports, an import certificate lodged with an authorized bank is required to make payments related to goods and incidental costs. Imports used for the production of ex- port goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter w i th in the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan com- mercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for imports of capital goods up to 25% of their f.o.b. value. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad. This group includes externally funded imports, if the financing terms include foreign insurance, capital goods and equipment under turn- key contracts, or duly authorized investment programs, in crude oil, gas, cattle, and wood. Imports are subject to a disembarkation inspection. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports of items representing about 8% of industrial production are subject to m in imum import prices (reference prices) for antidumping or safeguarding purposes. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of arms and explosives, as well as secondhand clothing and used tires, require licenses. Imports of products that affect public security, morale, and health may be prohibited. Secondhand clothing and used tires are also prohibited. Licensing requirements for imports of used cars were abolished in May 1996, and for imports of cereals, edible oils, sugar, and products derived from these licensing re- quirements were abolished in June. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, with rates ranging from 2.5% to 43.5% for industrial goods; tariffs on agricultural goods range up to 300%. Many con- sumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 5% duty. In addition, imports are subject to levies of 12.5% or 15%. Imports used for the production of exports are ex- empt from customs duties and other restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 583 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance imports of goods and raw materials of goods for export. Foreign exchange must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of the date of payment by for- eign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Residents of Moroccan nationality, inc lud ing ind iv idua ls and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Exporters are authorized to obtain up to 20% of export earnings in convertible dirham or foreign exchange accounts. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of f lour, charcoal, certain animals, plants, and archaeological items are subject to authorization. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax of 0.5%, except for hydrocar- bons, for wh ich the tax is 5%, and phosphates, for wh ich a tax on phosphate exploration equ iva lent to DH 34 per ton of gross phosphates has been levied since 1992. A 1% quality control tax is lev ied on exports of foodstuff. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents and for travel and study abroad without authorization from the FEO. Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and non- resident foreigners working for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreign airlines operat- ing in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the FEO, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers with respect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. There are no controls on payments for un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, subscriptions and membersh ip fees, or on the remittances of profits and dividends. All other payments and transfers, except for pensions, are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. The max imum allowance is the equivalent of DH 5,000 a person a year. This allowance may be increased by DH 1,500 for a minor child on the passport of the beneficiary par- ent and accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 MOROCCO also be granted to Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad upon their return to their home country, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remittances w i th in the previous 12 months up to a l im it of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nation- ality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or for- eign currency accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Ex- change Office on the basis of need, with a daily limit of DH 2,000. Banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small- and medium- size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by ind iv idua ls not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel allowances cannot be added to allowances for tourist travel. The foreign exchange office grants exemptions as needed. Approval by the Ministry of Health is required. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad up to the equivalent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on patients' behalf for treat- ment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions concerned. The limits are (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allowance for living expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect the trans- fer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a lease and a certificate of residence or any other equivalent document. The l im it is DH 2,000 a month for foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the FEO for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector or engaged in professions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer up to 50% of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by pub l ic and private agencies in favor of Moroccans residing abroad permanently. Foreign retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans may transfer up to 50% of their income. They may also freely contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Yes. Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Transfers are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 585 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents of Moroccan nationality, including ind iv idua ls and corporations, must repa- triate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and sur- render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surrender within 1 month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export without restriction foreign banknotes ob- tained by debiting their accounts in convertible dirhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15% of foreign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a l im it of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist allocation that applies to residents. Resident travelers may bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. Surrender requirements Exporters of services are required to obtain up to 20% of their export earnings in amounts denominated in foreign currency or convertible dirhams. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance of capital market securities by nonresidents is prohibited. There are, how- ever, no restrictions on the sale of Moroccan securities by nonresidents. Proceeds from such sales may also be freely transferred, provided that the relevant purchases are fi- nanced by foreign exchange inflows or any comparable means. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Moroccan nationality and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Resi- dents of foreign nationality are free to purchase securities abroad or, generally speaking, to constitute assets abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Where the purchase of such instruments or securities is financed by a foreign exchange inflow or by the proceeds of the sale of other securities previously purchased through the surrender of foreign exchange, the transfer of disinvestment proceeds, inc lud ing capital gains, and of income generated by such investment, is free. The issuance of these instruments by nonresidents is prohibited. Purchases require the prior authorization of the FEO, which is granted under certain conditions. On the other hand, residents of foreign nationality are free to engage in op- erations abroad financed with the ir foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Same regulations as for money market instruments apply. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MOROCCO Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These instruments have not been developed in Morocco. Purchase abroad by residents Residents of Moroccan nationality may subscribe to such instruments abroad only with the prior approval of the FEO. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Merchandise exporters are free to grant commercial credits to nonresidents for up to 150 days; longer terms may be granted with the approval of the FEO, as required for busi- ness purposes. The granting of financial loans by residents to nonresidents is subject to the approval of the FEO. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits are limited to foreign loans for financing investment operations or foreign trade. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Moroccan banks may issue or accept in favor of residents sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents in support of the participation of said nonresidents in pub l ic or private contracting, the supplying of goods or services, the refund of down payments, and the substitution of guarantee with holdings. Similarly, they may issue sureties on behalf of nonresidents in support of tax liabilities or financial obligations. A counter-guarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of non- residents. Where claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of resi- dents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. To residents from nonresidents Provisions of guarantees are allowed on the condition that they are contracted through resident Moroccan banks. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to the prior approval of the FEO, but residents of foreign nationality are free to invest abroad. There are no restrictions on transfers made directly with the bank ing system of the pro- ceeds of the liquidation or sale of foreign investment, including capital gains. For the l iqu ida t ion of any investment not fa l l ing under the convertibility arrangements, the rele- vant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit account denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be transferred over a 5-year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign nationals cannot purchase properties outside of urban limits. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks can only borrow abroad to finance foreign trade or investment operations. The granting of loans abroad by Moroccan banks is subject to approval by the Exchange Office. However, banks may use cash held in foreign exchange accounts (by foreign nationals, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) for granting buyer's credits to foreign, nonresident customers of Moroccan exporters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements MOROCCO 587 Moroccan banks may grant foreign exchange loans to residents for the financing of foreign trade operations and investment, w i th in the limits of their respective foreign exchange positions as authorized by the rules of the foreign exchange market. Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Convertible dirham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve require- ments. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken into account for the calculation of l iqu id asset requirements. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts A l im it of 20% of net equity (7% for the position in any single currency) was introduced in June 1996. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Prior approval by the FEO is required for portfolio investment abroad. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements June 3. An interbank foreign exchange market was established. Banks were allowed to freely trade foreign exchange against dirhams spot; forward operations are l im i ted to transactions related to imports, exports, or foreign borrowing. Imports and import payments January 1. Licensing requirements for imports of cereals, edible oils, and sugar were abolished. February 1. Licensing requirements for imports of sugar products were abolished. March 1. Licensing requ iremen ts for imports of oilseed were abolished. May 1. Payment for imports in a currency other than the one stipulated in the commer- cial contract was allowed for cereals, cereal products, and edible oils. May 20. Licensing requirements for imports of used cars were abolished. June 1. Payment for imports for refined edible oils and products. Capital transactions June 3. Banks' open position was limited to 20% of net equity (7% for the position in any single currency). Exchange arrangements January 31. Banks were authorized to engage in foreign exchange operations with for- eign banks us ing cash in a foreign currency. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as oj'January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Mozambique is the metical (plural meticais). Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The external va lue of the metical is determined by supply and demand in the exchange market, where the Bank of Mozambique (BM), the commercial banks, and foreign ex- change bureaus participate. The interbank market was established on Ju ly 16, 1996. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. No. Exchange control authorities The BM is responsible for foreign exchange policy and administers its control. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Ownership of gold bu l l ion is not allowed, trade Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold are governed by special regulations. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the amount they declared on entry. Imports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000, provided they have been prev ious ly exported. Resident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 588 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 589 Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. These accounts may be opened with funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from emp loyment and technical assistance contracts approved by competent ins t i tu t ions; transfers of such funds abroad are not permitted. Convertible into foreign currency No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Confirmation of the existence of sufficient funds in the bank is required. Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentary proof of the arrival of goods has to be presented w i th in 90 days of payment. Documentary proof of the arrival of goods has to be presented within 90 days of payment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for all imports in excess of $2,500, with the exception of perish- able commodities and imports for the personal needs of diplomats. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs reviews import requests. Tied import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. All imports exceeding the equ iva lent of $500 are subject to registration by the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses specifying, among other things, the place of embarkation and disembarkation of the goods, the amount and currency of payment, and the source of f inanc ing are routinely granted. Ind iv idua ls may import goods up to the equivalent of $500 w i thout an import license if the goods are financed with their own foreign ex- change resources and tied aid funds are not invo lved. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 590 MOZAMBIQUE Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All export proceeds, except in cases authorized by the BM, must be collected through the commercial banks. The surrender requirement was eliminated on January 1, 1997. Companies that export more than 85% of their production qualify for the status of free trade zone. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to registration. n.a. n.a. The general export duty of 0.5% was suspended for 5 years on December 31, 1994. A ban on exports of raw cashews was suspended in 1995 and replaced by an export duty. The duty was lowered to 14% in November 1996 from 20%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Commercial banks and exchange bureaus are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to $5,000 to ind iv idua ls to pay expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for film rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to publications. Operations exceeding this amount, or for other purposes, are subject to licensing by the BM. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, commissions, gambling and prize earnings, or family maintenance and alimony. Remittances of profit and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 591 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign experts wo rk ing in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Certain Mozambican nationals work ing abroad under o f f ic ia l ly arranged contracts (specifically, m iners in the Repub l ic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60% of the ir earnings through the BM and to convert them into meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments BM approval is required for purchases or sales abroad by residents of capital and money market instruments in excess of $5,000. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments BM approval is required for purchases or sales abroad by residents of derivatives and other instruments in excess of $5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MOZAMBIQUE Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Pub l ic and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrow- ing must be registered w i th the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on concessionary terms. Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate their initial capital. The incen- tives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Center. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks and other financial institutions may hold a limited amount of foreign exchange. Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE Changes During 1996 593 Exchange arrangements July 16. An interbank foreign exchange market was established. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 4. A new Foreign Exchange Law was introduced. July 19. The regulations for the new Foreign Exchange Law were introduced. Exports and export proceeds November 29. The export duty for cashews was lowered to 14% from 20%. December 30. Exporters of goods were allowed to hold 100% of net earnings on foreign exchange accounts. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers December 30. Exporters of services were allowed to hold 100% of net earnings on for- eign exchange accounts. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The surrender requirement was abolished. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the kyat. In addition to the official exchange rate, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar (CBM) in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 units, and exchangeable with 6 hard currencies or with acceptable traveler's checks. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs are avail- able for kyats at the market-determined rate at a new exchange center in Yangon. Hold- ers of FECs may deposit them into their foreign exchange accounts. An unofficial parallel market for foreign exchange also exists. The Myanmar kyat is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2% to spot exchange transactions based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buy ing and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, French franc, Japanese yen, pound sterling, Swiss franc, and U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB), are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the ACU (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, Indian rupee, Iranian rial, Nepalese rupee, Pakistan rupee, and Sri Lanka rupee). The buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian franc, Italian lira, Hong Kong dollar, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilder, and Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and the buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are based on the appropriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in ACU dollars through the ACU mechanism. From January 1, 1996, 1 ACU dollar equals 1 U.S. dollar. Myanmar is a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trade arrangements with neighboring countries exist. These arrangements do not provide for the extension of credit. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the CBM in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minister allocates foreign exchange for the pub l ic sector. 594 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 595 International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears are ma in ta ined w i th respect to debt-service payments of the central government. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal use may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. Personal jewelry of a prescribed value is permitted to be taken out, subject to the condi- tion that the jewe lry w i ll be brought back into the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Gold bu l l ion may not be imported from any source. The exportation of Myanmar currency is p roh ib i ted. Residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad are allowed to buy $500 from the MFTB and the Myanmar Investment and Commercial Bank (MICB) on presentation of FEC 500 or from the ir own foreign currency accounts. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar w i th in 6 months of arriving may take out any balance of foreign cur- rency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the FECs purchased in excess of the m i n im um required purchase of $300. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Travelers may br ing in up to $2,000 or its equ iva lent w i thout any declaration. Tourists arriving in Myanmar are required to purchase FECs equivalent to a m in imum value of $300, but amounts in excess of th is m in imum may be reconverted into foreign exchange on departure. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Foreign currency accounts of national firms may be kept with private domestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Accounts may be opened in U.S. do l lars only by Myanmar na t iona ls who earn foreign exchange. Account holders are allowed to import under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of letters of credit or on a collection basis. With prior approval, account hold- ers may use funds from the ir accounts to purchase air tickets for fam i ly v is i ts abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examination fees for their ch i ldren, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of funds between accounts are permitted. Held abroad Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only for payments of official expenses. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id i c al and na tural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 596 MYANMAR Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of foreign diplomatic missions and international organiza- tions and their home-based personnel may be kept with the MFTB only. Other foreign residents may open foreign currency accounts with any bank authorized to deal in for- eign exchange. Prior authorization is required to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency All debits and credits to these accounts require prior authorization. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Imports and Import Payments An import program for the pub l ic sector is prepared annually as part of the foreign ex- change budget drawn up jo in t ly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the MFR. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through private domestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange business. State economic enter- prises obtain foreign exchange directly from the MFTB, within the approved foreign exchange budget, after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds of border exports. Myan- mar na t iona ls who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make un l im- ited payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals work ing abroad under off ic ial permits who have not yet opened foreign cur- rency accounts may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Advance payment requirements The State Bank requires a 100% advance payment, wh i le private bank requirements vary according to the credit standing of their customer. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports from any country are free, except with countries under UN embargo or with wh ich Myanmar has severed d ip loma t ic relations. With a few exceptions, private sector imports require import licenses for each transaction and are largely financed from the importer's foreign currency account. Import licenses may be obtained for priority items (List A), nonpr ior i ty items (List B), and "neutral" items. An importer wishing to import items from List B or neutral items is generally required to import goods on List A at a va lue equ iva lent to 50% and 25% of the values of goods on List B and of neutral items, respectively. Private importers must register at the MOC and renew their licenses an- nua l ly. Border imports requ ire permits. Exporters of agricultural, forestry, and fisheries produc ts are encouraged to import up to the equ iva lent of 25% of the export value of selected items that w i ll contribute to the production in these sectors. Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion, may not be imported from any source. Jo int ventures with private interests may be granted open general licenses on a case-by- case basis, and are exempt from List A requirements. State economic enterprises may import goods for the ir own use and for resale with open general licenses, whereas gov- ernment departments may import only for their own use. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 597 Import taxes and/or tar iffs Tariff rates range from zero to 40%. Agricultural implements, raw materials, and other essential imports are taxed at low rates, wh i le the highest rates are applied to imports of luxury goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be fu l ly repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. Yes. n.a. Yes. Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except those under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. State enterprises have a monopoly on the exportation of rice, teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agricultural Produce Trading through the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Excluding goods under the exemption list, commercial taxes are levied on all exports at 5%, provided the proceeds are received in foreign currency. A specific duty of 10 kyats per metric ton is levied on all varieties of rice. Customs duties are levied on rice, bam- boo, cereal, raw hides, and cakes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits All payments for invisibles outside the pub l ic sector are subject to approval and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Information on indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests is not available. Remittances of insurance premium payments other than for Myanma Insurance are not permitted. Yes. Balances of salary and law ful income earned that remain after payment of taxes and deduction of l iv ing expenses of the worker or his or her fam i ly may be transferred abroad through a bank w i th the approval of the CBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 598 MYANMAR Pensions Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Remittance to retired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned were nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the government; the l im it is one-half of the net salary if the spouse is l iv ing abroad and one-third of the net salary if the spouse is living in Myanmar. Credit card use abroad n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless exchange control authorities grant a special waiver, 10% of proceeds must be paid as income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permission from the gov- ernment are required to pay an income tax at the rate of 10% of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Myanmar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar nationals working abroad under their own arrangements must pay as income tax 10% of their gross earn- ings. Myanmar nationals working abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10% of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. Restrictions on use of funds Use is subject to exchange control approval. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Inward direct investment The Myanmar Investment Commission may accept proposals for investment from for- eigners for fu ll ownership and under joint venture, with the share of foreign capital rep- resenting at least 35% of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign investment, the commission may grant exemption from customs duties and other internal taxes on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw materials imported for the first 3 years of commercial production, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 599 as well as exemption from the income tax for a period of up to 3 consecutive years, inc lud ing the year when production of goods and services began, or for longer than 3 years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign investment are specified in a detailed positive list. The government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nationalized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. Repatriation of capital and profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed funds. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Settlement with ACU countries are to be made in ACU dollars, which are at par with the U.S. dollar. Resident accounts January L Residents who have been granted permission to travel abroad are allowed to obtain up to $500 from the MFTB or the MICE. January L The 10% bank charge on the opening of foreign currency accounts was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of April 30, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Nam ib ia is the Namibia dollar. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The Namibia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The ex- change market in Namibia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Africa. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including forward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresidents, subject to certain limitations. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward an- ticipated receipts of their fu ture gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transactions invo lv ing Namibia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars w i th a margin based on the interest rate differential between the two currencies. Official cover of forward operations Special forward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import financing. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Nam ib ia is part of the CMA, and therefore no restrictions are applied to payments w i th in the CMA. In pr inc ip le, payments are not controlled. The Bank of Namibia (BON), on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Namibia applies exchange controls that are almost identical to those applied by the other CMA members. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for nu- mismatic and investment purposes only. 600 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad NAMIBIA 601 All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. An individual may export up to N$500. Export of foreign currency not authorized in terms of exchange control rulings requires prior BON approval. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$500 in Namibian banknotes or R 500 in South African banknotes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Resident Accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. These accounts may be permitted, particularly for import and export concerns. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted On August 19, 1996, export processing zone (EPZ) customers were allowed foreign currency accounts. These accounts are kept offshore via a local authorized dealer and are set to facilitate the foreign currency disbursements of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must conform to normal banking practices and must be carried out with the fu ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. On August 19, 1996, EPZ nonresident accounts were allowed. These are Namibia dollar accounts, funded with foreign currency and are used for the normal operational require- ments and expenditures of EPZ enterprises and to facilitate local investments. Balances remaining in these accounts are freely convertible and remittable abroad. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts There are emigrant blocked accounts in rand. The regulations applying to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. On December 31, 1996, a limit of N$50,000 a year on releases from these accounts in respect to gifts and donations to third-party resi- dents in Nam ib ia was set. On Apr il 2, 1997, the l im it on these releases was increased to N$ 100,000. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 NAMIBIA F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports require the approval of the BON. Authorized dealers may authorize "cash with order" advance payments and approve up to 33.3% of the ex- factory cost of capital goods. Documentation confirming receipts of the imported articles into Namibia, (e.g., bill of entry, local post receipts) is required. Letters of credit They can be established by authorized dealers locally. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Permits are valid for 1 year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90% of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU, and, under certain conditions, from countries within the SACU. Licenses with quotas n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports from countries outside the SACU are subject to surcharges ranging from 7.5% for foodstuffs to 40% for nonessential luxury goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system A general sales tax of 11% is levied on all imports as well as on locally produced goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are normally required to be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system All export proceeds are normally required to be surrendered within 6 months of ship- ment or within 30 days of the date of accrual. Since July 4, 1996, corporate entities that operate in the export field and also import goods from abroad were allowed to offset the cost of imports against the proceeds of exports, provided the set-offtakes place within 30 days. Yes. Yes. Most exports are permitted without a license. Permits are required for exports of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Authorized dealers may approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits. Larger amounts may be granted on presentation of documentary proof of need. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, medical costs, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, and on interest payments. On April 21, 1997, virtually all remaining controls on current account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits NAMIBIA 603 transactions were abolished, except in cases where the limits were retained to make the remaining controls on capital outflows effective. No prior approval is required, but if a local company is contracting any loans via a local source, an application should be lodged with the BON. On Apr il 21, 1997, allowances were increased and the previously determined distinc- tions between neighboring and other countries were abolished. Residents may obtain up to N$80,000 for a person 12 years or older, and N$25,000 for a child under the age of 12 years each calendar year. Residents traveling to destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take out foreign exchange in any form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Since Apr il 21, 1997, the annual allowance is N$80,000 for a student or N$ 160,000 for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Yes. Contract workers may transfer two-thirds of their monthly salary. Prior approval Applications are considered on the merits of the particular case. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Normally, Nam ib ians are discouraged from participating in international lotteries. Most requests in th is regard are declined. n.a. Yes. Maintenance transfers are limited to N$2,000 for a receiving family un it a month. Ali- mony payments are not limited. Since December 31, 1996, upon emigration, emigrants may export motor vehicles w i th in an overall insured value of N$ 100,000 as well as personal effects and household goods of N$ 100,000. Departing residents are required to complete the form MP928 prior to departure. L im i ts must be in accordance with prescribed travel allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the date of accrual un- less exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds Prior BON approval should be obtained to use such funds outside the CMA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 604 NAMIBIA Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their own merits. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents are freely transferable. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Namibian residents should obtain prior BON approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to specific approval from the BON, which is generally given for borrowings abroad with a maturity of at least 6 months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowings or consumer credit. Author- ized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and other approved purposes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Since Ju ly 4, 1996, a wholly nonresident-owned company may borrow 100% of share- holder equity locally. On April 1, 1997, nonresident-owned local companies' access to domestic credit was increased, i.e., only companies that are 50% or more foreign owned w i ll be subject to exchange controls. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment NAMIBIA 605 Applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their own merits. Since July 4, 1996, Namibian corporations may invest up to N$20 million abroad. If the investment exceeds N$20 million, the balance must be financed abroad by means of foreign borrowing without recourse to, or guarantee from, Namibia. Also, since that date, approved foreign subsidiaries may expand activities abroad without prior approval, provided such expansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by the em- ployment of profits earned by the foreign subsidiary. On April 1, 1997, the limit on foreign investment was increased to N$30 m i l l ion to countries other than SADC mem- bers, and a new facility of N$50 million in respect of investment in SADC member countries was established. Also, consideration was to be given to foreign borrowings to finance these investments being raised with recourse to or guarantee from Namibia, implying that the local corporations' balance sheets may be used in negotiating such a facility. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment may be freely made. Families emigrating outside the CMA are granted the normal tourist allowance and are permitted to remit up to N$250,000 (N$ 125,000 for single persons). Any balance ex- ceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. The balance, includ- ing earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their for- eign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets they transfer to Namibia may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first 5 years of their arrival. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Prior approval is needed for lending not related to trade transactions. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is prohibited, Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Investments are allowed on ly by way of swaps. On Ju ly 4, 1996, the limit was increased to 10% of the total va lue of the local fund from 5%. Institutional investors were allowed foreign currency transfers during 1996 of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds dur ing their 1995 calendar year. Approval of these transfers is subject to the said overall limit of 10%. On April 21, 1997, the foreign currency transfers allowed in 1996 were extended to 1997. Accordingly, transfers abroad of up to 3% of the net inf low of funds du r ing the preceding year may be allowed. In addition, 2% of the net inf low of funds during a pre- ceding year could be utilized for investment in the stock exchanges of SADC members, still subject to the overall l im it of 10% of the total assets applicable to asset swaps. The definition of institutional investor was expanded to include the unit trust manage- ment company itself. In the past, only the fund itself qualified for asset swap transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 606 NAMIBIA Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally The minimum is 35% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities Yes. laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 1996 September 20. Namibia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. August 19. EPZ customer foreign currency accounts were allowed; these accounts are kept offshore via a local authorized dealer and are set up to facilitate the foreign cur- rency disbursements of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must con- form to normal banking practices and must be carried out with the fu ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. August 19. EPZ nonresident accounts were allowed. Balances remaining in these ac- counts are freely convertible and remittable abroad. December 31. Up to N$50,000 a year may be released from these accounts in respect to gifts and donations to third-party residents in Namibia. December 31. Upon emigration, emigrants may export motor vehicles within an overall insured value of N$ 100,000 as well as personal effects and household goods of N$ 100,000. July 4. Foreign investors' access to domestic credit was doubled; a wholly nonresident- owned company can borrow 100% of shareholders' equity locally. July 4. The limit in respect of asset swap transactions by institutional investors was in- creased to 10% of the total assets of the local fund from 5%. July 4. Institutional investors were allowed foreign currency transfers during 1996 of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds during their 1995 calendar year. Approval of such transfers is subject to the said overall limit of 10%. July 4. Corporate entities that operate in the export field and also import goods from abroad were allowed to offset the cost of imports against the proceeds of exports, pro- vided the transaction takes place within 30 days. July 4. Namibian corporations may invest up to N$20 million abroad. If the investment exceeds N$20 million, the balance must be financed abroad by means of foreign bor- rowing without recourse to or guarantee from Namibia. July 4. Existing approved foreign subsidiaries may expand activities abroad without prior approval, provided such expansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by the employment of profits earned by the foreign subsidiary. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 13. Neighboring countries were redefined to include Mauritius and Tanzania, in addition to Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malawi, Mo- zambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts April 21. The allowed annual amount for release from the local blocked account in re- spect to gifts to third-party residents in Namibia was increased to N$ 100,000 from N$50,000. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers April 21. Virtually all controls on current account transactions were abolished, except in cases where the limits were retained to make the remaining controls on capital outflows effective. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions NAMIBIA 607 April 21. Namibians traveling abroad were allowed a maximum of N$80,000 for a per- son of 12 years or older, and N$25,000 for a child under the age of 12 years for each calendar year (this limit was increased from the previous limit of N$60,000). The previ- ous distinction between neighboring and other countries was dispensed with. Previ- ously, allowances for travel to neighboring countries (Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) were restricted to N$20,000 an adult a calendar year. April 21. Namibian residents studying on a fu l l- t ime basis abroad may obtain an annual study allowance of N$80,000 a student or N$ 160,000 for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse. April 1. Nonresident-owned local companies' access to domestic credit was increased, i.e., only companies that are 50% or more foreign owned are to be subject to exchange controls. April 21. The l im it on foreign investment by Namibian corporations was increased to N$30 m i l l ion for countries other than SADC members, and a new facility of N$50 mil- lion in respect to investment in SADC member countries was established. Also, consid- eration was to be given to foreign borrowings to finance such investments being raised with recourse to or guarantee from Namibia, implying that the local corporations' bal- ance sheets may be used in negotiating such a facility. April 21. The foreign currency transfers allowed in 1996 were extended to 1997. Ac- cordingly, transfers abroad up to 3% of the net inflow of funds dur ing the preceding year were allowed. In addition, 2% of the net inflow of funds during a preceding year could be utilized for investment in the stock exchanges of SADC members, still subject to the overall limit of 10% of the total assets applicable to asset swaps. The def in i t ion of institutional investor was expanded to inc lude the un it trust management company itself. In the past, only the fund itself qualified for asset swap transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. The Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The official exchange rate is determined by linking it closely to the Indian rupee with cross rates against other currencies determined by commercial banks on the basis of demand and supply. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other curren- cies with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. All current trans- actions with member countries of the ACU other than India must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in U.S. dollars. Other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Yes. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the procedures prescribed by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Persons who have stayed abroad for more than 1 month and have an official source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. 608 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 609 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Nepalese currency may not be exported to countries other than India, and may be taken to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they bring in. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be brought in only from India and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in foreign banknotes, but must declare amounts exceeding the equivalent of $2,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Exporters are allowed to deposit up to 100% of export earnings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than 3 months may open these accounts. Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in Australian dol- lars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guild- ers, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Current accounts may be opened with a m in imum equivalent to $500, and time deposits with a m in imum equivalent to $3,000. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons, foreign diplomats, foreign nationals working in projects financed with foreign aid funds under bilateral or multilateral agreements with the government, and nonresidents may freely open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Nonresidents who receive or bring into Nepal foreign currencies, which they convert into Nepalese rupees and deposit with a Nepalese bank, may reconvert them for transfer out of the country, subject to the prior approval of the NRB. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 NEPAL Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Most imports are covered under OGL. Silver is mostly imported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handicraft-exporting industries through the commercial banks. Im- ports of silver up to 150 kilograms are allowed for those who have stayed abroad more than 1 month and have an official source of foreign exchange. Imports of arms, ammunition, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry require special permission from the government. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are 5 tariff rates (5%, 10%, 20%, 40%, and 110%), with most goods subject to either the 20% or the 40% rate. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are permitted to bring in goods worth Nrs 1,000 free of customs duties and sales taxes. Those citizens with official sources of foreign ex- change earnings and who have stayed abroad for 1 month or more are allowed addi- tional imports without proper documentation. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 180 days of receipt. As of September 30, 1996, exporters are allowed to accept short payment in export proceeds, if it does not exceed either 1% of the export value or $500, whichever is higher. Exporters may retain their export earnings on their foreign currency account with local banks. Ready-made garment exporters are allowed to import fabrics from India in con- vertible currencies not exceeding 50% of their export earnings. Commercial banks may grant preexport credit of up to 70% of the f.o.b. value of prod- ucts specified by the government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit (LCs) opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of 3 months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Exports valued at more than $1,000 to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable LCs or advance payments by foreign banks. Reexportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and reexportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports of items having archaeological and religious value, old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials are prohibited. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota that increases annually by 6%. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Information on quantitative limits for most payments is not available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 611 Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Credit card use abroad The l im it ranges from $300 to $1,500, depending on the destination. Migrant workers are allowed to take out the equivalent of $1,500 annually. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Nonresidents can invest in equity shares up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 612 NEPAL Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Nepalese citizens, whether residing in Nepal or not, are not allowed to make any type of investment in foreign countries, except as specifically exempted by government notice. The exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and invest- ments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. Investments require prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Industrial Pro- motion Board. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense- related industries unless substantial transfers of technology are involved. Foreign inves- tors can hold 100% equity in large- and medium-scale industries, i.e., those with fixed assets of more than Nrs 10 million. Foreign security firms are permitted to form jo int ventures with local state exchange members, but their ownership is limited to 40%. Approval from the NRB and the Industrial Promotion Board is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Changes During 1996 Exports and export proceeds June 6. The proportion of export earnings that ready-made garment exporters were al- lowed to import from India in convertible currencies was increased to 50% from 30%. September 30. Exporters were allowed to accept short payment in export proceeds if such payment does not exceed either 1% of the export value or $500, whichever is higher. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers June 30. Indicative limits for travel were from $300 to $1,500, depending on destination. Capital transactions July 31. Foreign portfolio investment of up to 25% of the paid-up capital of a company was allowed. Foreign securities firms were permitted to form jo int ventures with local stock exchange members. The portion of their ownership in such ventures was limited to 40%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands guilder. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The Netherlands participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agree- ment, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guil- der and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Under a special bilateral agreement, the spot exchange rate of the Netherlands gu i lder and the deutsche mark is maintained w i th in a fluctuation band of ±2.25%. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq and Libya. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. 613 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 NETHERLANDS Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. Yes. In compliance with relevant UN Security Council resolutions, funds belonging to Iraq and Libya are blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports from Angola and Iraq are prohibited. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to import levies. Common EU regulations are applied to most agricultural and livestock products. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries (i.e., the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Repub- lic of Korea, and Vietnam), as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Licenses with quotas Imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 615 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act (1994). Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase off ic ia l ly listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign debentures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eurogu i lder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have the ir securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. No. No. No. No. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or in- vestment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrow ing from nonresidents is free of license. L im i ts are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 February 27. Restrictions against areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces were suspended and later l if ted, in accordance w i th UN Security Counc il Resolution No. 1022. February 27. Blocked accounts related to funds belonging to designated persons in ar- eas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces were suspended and later eliminated, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022. February 27. Nontariff measures against areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces were suspended and later lifted, in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean guilder. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass if icat ion Pegged The Netherlands Antillean guilder is pegged to the U.S. dollar at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The official selling rate is NA f. 1.80 per $1. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are set daily on the basis of rates of the U.S. dollar abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where required. The Department of Finance issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may provide for- eign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval of the CB. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is prohibited except for traveling purposes. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. Resident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident ind iv idua ls may hold these accounts w i thout a special license. Held domestically Yes. 616 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 617 Held abroad These accounts are permitted; transfers from a local bank account to foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. No. Imports and Import Payments Imports with delivery dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the CB. No. No. Imported goods for which there are locally produced substitutes are subject to tariffs ranging from 25% to 90%. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curacao. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received w i th in 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the CB. No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most types of current inv is ib le payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than 1 year apart. Companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES must submit their annual report to the CB for verification of the actual amount of profits and dividends recorded before they may remit them. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Investments by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are listed) are permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, pro- vided that these payments occur through a local exchange bank. Reinvestment of pro- ceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Credit operations require licenses, which are normally granted. Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments are subject to control. Inward direct investment Investments require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A license is required for these purchases. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements A 2% reserve requirement is applied to the adjusted domestic debt of commercial banks. Additionally, there are prudential regulations concerning the extension of credits (the large exposure requirement). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 619 Liquid asset requirements No deficit l iqu id i ty position is allowed. Credit controls There is a monetary cash reserve requirement. Du r ing 1996, net domestic credit to the private sector by commercial banks was allowed to grow by 3%; lend ing funded through foreign borrowing, given due proof and after CB approval, was exempted from this ceiling. Investment regulations CB approval is required for the acquisition of shares in other companies. Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks' overall positions must always be positive and in currencies consid- ered "freely usable." Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on por tfo l io invested abroad The l im i ts are 60% for the first NA f. 10 m i l l ion, 50% for the next NA f. 10 m i l l ion, and 40% for additional amounts. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally The limits are 40% for the first NA f. 10 m i l l ion, 50% for the next NA f. 10 m i l l ion, and 60% for additional amounts. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no securities law. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement C lass i f ica t ion Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requ irements Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. New Zealand notified the IMF on September 6, 1990, that, in compliance with UN Se- curity Council Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, and similarly on September 30, 1992, with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Since December 3, 1993, certain restrictions on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Counc il resolutions have been imposed with respect to Libya. Yes. No. No. The Financial Transactions Reporting Act that came into force on August 1, 1996, re- quires that imports and exports of banknotes be reported. A customs documentation form, required when entering or leaving the country, includes a requirement to declare amounts greater than $NZ 10,000 or its equ iva len t. Resident Accounts E l i g i b i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 620 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 621 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Import proh ib i t ions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products— primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the pub l ic interest. The only tariffs over 20% apply to motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts, and certain other products ( inc lud ing textiles, clothing, footwear, and carpeting). Most tariffs are ad valorem, but specific duties apply to some products. Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SPARTECA, imports of qua l i fy ing goods enter du ty free from Australia and SPARTECA countries. E l ig ib le imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the GSP. In addition, duty free access is given to most imports from 36 least-developed countries. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently restricted by quotas and other quan t i ta t ive restrictions imposed by its pr inc ipal trading partners. For example, exports of lamb and butter to the EU and exports of beef and dairy products to the Un i ted States are subject to either quotas or vo lun ta ry export restraints. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 622 NEW ZEALAND Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. Under the Overseas Investment Regulations of 1995, which took effect on January 15, 1996, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland" and "land" investments, which apply both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled firms. Nonland investments involving the acquisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand company, and where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 million or which in- volve the purchase of property in excess of $NZ 10 million used in carrying on a busi- ness, are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceeding $NZ 10 million in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the procedure is straightforward. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in certain types of land is subject to both a bona fide investor test and a "national interest" test. Land acquisitions that require authorization relate to any land exceeding 5 hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 million, and islands or land containing or adjoining reserves, historic or heritage areas, and the foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectares. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. Capital transactions August 1. The Overseas Investment Regulations became effective. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 30, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nicaragua is the cordoba. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities A crawling peg system in wh ich the exchange rate is adjusted 1% a month is main- tained. The central government and financial institutions are free to undertake purchases or sales of foreign exchange w i th the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN), and financial institutions and exchange houses are permitted to carry out transactions with the private sector. On March 31, 1997, Nicaragua's exchange arrangement was reclassified to man- aged floating from adjusted according to a set of indicators. There is no tax, but the CBN charges a commission of 1% on sales of foreign exchange. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The CBN administers the exchange control system, and allows authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Payment arrears are maintained w i th the Central American Bank of Economic Integration. n.a. The Nicaraguan M in ing Institute manages the coun try's gold production. The CBN reserves the right to purchase up to 25% of gold production by private mines, at prices prevailing in international markets. However, the mines may export gold freely if the CBN does not purchase this amount during a certain period. Natural and ju r id ical per- sons may trade gold coins (commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980) for num isma t ic purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 623 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency NICARAGUA Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Cordoba accounts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) contracts may be opened with commercial banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments No. No. All importers must submit an import declaration form either to commercial banks or to customs in case they are using their own resources. Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through let- ters of credit. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of 746 items are subject to a temporary import tariff independent of their origin, and all imports are subject to a sales tax and the Central American Common Tariff. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements No. Surrender requirements Surrender requirements were abolished on January 1, 1996, but all exporters benefiting from the export promotion mechanism must deposit export proceeds in an account at commercial banks. Exporters may mob i l ize the account later w i thout any restriction. F inan c ing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 625 Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Export licenses are not required, but all exports must be registered (Registro Unico de Exportation) with the Ministry of Economy. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Capital Transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Credits to residents from nonresidents must be reported to the CBN, for statistical pur- poses, w i th in 30 days after the credits have been granted. Foreign exchange originating from new investments or additions to capital must be sur- rendered to the CBN through commercial banks. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Ind iv idual limits apply depending on the type of credit institution. With regard to sight deposits, limits are imposed according to working capital requirements, and up to 100% of capital for certificate of deposits. Other prudential regulations, as established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions, apply. The requirement is 15% for deposits in domestic currency, and 25% for foreign cur- rency deposits. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are prudential regulations established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 NICARAGUA Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements January 1. The dual exchange rate system was unified. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Surrender requirements were eliminated. Exchange arrangements March 31. Nicaragua's exchange arrangement was reclassified to managed floating from adjusted according to a set of indicators. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They inc lude a bank commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Minis- try of Finance and Planning (MOFP). Such cover may be provided for payments for permitted imports and for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The ma- turity period must not exceed 1 or 3 months, depending on the nature of the goods in- volved, and is not renewable. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Niger is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. n.a. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually effected either in foreign currencies through correspondent banks in France or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Financial Relations Directorate of the MOFP. International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and exports of gold requ ire pr ior authorization from the MOFP. Exempt from th is requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 628 NIGER Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. n.a. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; for larger amounts, documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks is re- qu ired. Residents trave l ing for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out the equivalent of up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion in banknotes other than CFA franc banknotes; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must surrender them w i th in 8 days of entry. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency These accounts are not provided for under the exchange regulations. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but pr ior authorization from the Minister of the MOFP is required. These accounts are subject to strict regulations; they may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue w i th an Operations Ac- count w i th the French Treasury. Convertible into foreign currency Nonres ident accounts may be converted into any currency. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Domiciliation requ iremen ts All imports exceeding CFAF 25,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 629 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tar iffs A license is required for imports of petroleum products. The customs tariff regime consists of 3 ad valorem rates of 5%, 10%, and 30%. There is also a 5% processing fee levied on imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Petroleum products and pharmaceuticals are imported by a state monopoly. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes The due date of payment for exports cannot exceed 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchasing country, must be repatriated in their entirety through an authorized intermediary bank no later than 15 days from the date of receipt. Exports of livestock, leather and skins, onions, rice, and sugar are subject to the sub- mission of a statistical registration certificate. Exports to France and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange commitment. n.a. n.a. All exports of more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized interme- diary bank. n.a. No. Exports and reexports are subject to a 5% statistical tax. Reexports are subject to a spe- cial tax of 10%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisible transactions with France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of profits are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Yes. Yes. n.a. Approval is required for travel outside the franc zone. The limits are the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 a tr ip for tourist travel and CFAF 75,000 a day for up to 1 month for business travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 NIGER Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of the limits are subject to the authorization of the MOFP or, by delegation, the BCEAO. Medical costs Study abroad costs Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Approval of the Monetary and Financial Relations Directorate is required. These transfers are normally limited to 70% of net pay. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger transfers are permitted if supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Credit cards may be used up to the ceilings for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All amounts due, except for transactions with France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries, must be surrendered within 2 months of the due date or date of receipt. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transactions between Niger and France, Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require approval from the exchange control authority and are restricted. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 631 Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad. Such operations require prior authorization from the MOFP, except in the cases of operations in connection with loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien government. By residents to nonresidents Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the MOFP. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Borrowing requires prior declaration to the MOFP when the outstanding amount for any 1 borrower exceeds CFAF 30 m i l l ion. The repayment of a foreign loan constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct invest- ment. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loans were subject to prior authorization. Yes. Yes. Investments require prior MOFP authorization, and 75% of it must be financed through foreign borrowing. Investments must be declared to the MOFP before they are made, inc lud ing those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. Direct investments are those imp ly ing control of a company or an enterprise. However, mere acquisition of interest in the company is not considered direct investment when it does not exceed 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The MOFP has a period of 2 months from the receipt of the declaration to request postponement of the project. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The liquidation of Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger must be reported to the MOFP and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Yes. n.a. n.a. Loans contracted by authorized banks are exempt from the requirement of prior authori- zation from the MOFP. Earnings from such arrangements must be sold immediately on the foreign exchange market or debited from a foreign account denominated in French francs. Maintenance of accounts abroad Restrictions apply to resident institutions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Foreign lend ing is subject to prior authorization from the MOFP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 632 NIGER Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Dispensation from the MOFP for risks undertaken abroad is required. Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Restrictions are imposed by the Insurance Code —Inter-African Conference of Insurance Markets (CIMA). Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 1. Niger accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the naira. Dual. There is an official exchange rate, at which all government transactions with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are conducted, and a market-determined exchange rate in the Autonomous Foreign Exchange Market (AFEM), at which all other transactions take place. The official exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar at N 22 per $1. No. Yes. Forward exchange transactions at the AFEM rate are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and their customers. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements No. n.a. Settlements with the central banks of the member states of the WAEMU are normally made through the WACH in West African Units of Account. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) formulates basic exchange control policy and issues directives as appropriate for the operation of the AFEM. The CBN appoints and revokes the appointments of authorized dealers or authorized buyers of foreign cur- rency, and supervises and monitors the operation of the AFEM. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade External debt service payments are limited to 30% of oil proceeds after deductions for certain specified purposes. The Debt Conversion Program (DCP) regulates the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds from the conversion of such debt. The majority of arrears are to Paris Club bilateral creditors, but there are also small amounts of arrears to multilateral and non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus- trial users are not allowed, w i thout special permission, to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins, at home or abroad. 633 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 634 NIGERIA Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the FMF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic currency in excess of N 1,000 is prohibited, n.a. The importation of domestic currency in excess of N 1,000 is prohibited, n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Any person may open, maintain, and operate a domiciliary account designated in for- eign currency with an authorized dealer. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and international organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to, and approval has been obtained from, the CBN before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments n.a. No. No. Unless a "clean report of findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlements for imports may not be effected. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 635 Domiciliation requirements n.a. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs All containerized imports, irrespective of their value, and uncontainerized imports val- ued at the equivalent of $1,000 or more are subject to preshipment inspection. Import payments covered by confirmed letters of credit are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the unders tand ing that the goods paid for w i ll arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian government w i th in 21 days of ne- gotiation of the specified documents. The importation of poultry, eggs, mosquito repellant, coils, plastic domestic articles, beer, maize, sorghum, millet, wheat flour, vegetable oils, barytes and bentonites, re- treaded or used tires, motor vehicles and motorcycles over 8 years old, and gaming ma- chines is prohibited. Import duties range from zero to 100%, with most goods subject to rates between 10% and 40%. The unwe igh ted average duty is about 35%. In addition, 3 import surcharges apply: a 5% port development surcharge, a 1% Raw Materials and Development Council surcharge, and a 0.02% freight rate stabilization surcharge earmarked for the Nigerian Shippers Council. An import duty rebate of 25% applies to most goods, and certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. There are also a 7% port development surcharge, a 5% levy on imported sugar, and a 2% surcharge on automobiles. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses All oil exploration and producing companies, as well as oil services companies, must sell their foreign exchange earnings to the CBN at the preva i l ing AFEM rate. Non-oil exporters are permitted to sell their export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at autonomous foreign exchange market rates. Payment for exports should be made with letters of credit or any other approved inter- national mode of payment. n.a. Repatriated non-oil export proceeds and other inflows should be held in domiciliary accounts maintained with authorized dealers in Nigeria. Holders of the domiciliary ac- counts have easy access to their funds maintained therein, subject to the existing guide- lines, and may sell their export proceeds to banks other than those where they maintain the ir domiciliary accounts. All exports, oil and non-oil, from Nigeria are subject to preshipment inspection by gov- ernment-appointed inspection agents. All exporters are responsible for the payment of a service charge for the Nigerian Export Supervision Scheme (NESS) at rates determined and advised by the FMF. Exports of unref ined gold and petroleum products are subject to licensing. The exporta- tion of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohib- ited, except under certain conditions. Exports of timber (processed and unprocessed), raw hides and skins, cassava, maize, rice, yam, beans, scrap metal, and unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps are prohibited. Exports of petroleum are handled by the N iger ian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 Without quotas Export taxes NIGERIA Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Applications for foreign exchange must be submitted to the CBN through designated banks; verification is on an ex post basis. Basic allowances are provided for some pay- ments. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and stor- age costs, and administrative expenses. Remittances are approved by the FMF, subject to documentation requirements. Interest income, profits and dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be repatriated before 5 years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual investment, or before 5 years after such profits and dividends are made or paid, whichever is later. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Payments for travel Study abroad costs Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits A personal travel allowance is allowed for all Nigerian citizens in the AFEM without any restriction as to the amount of entitlement and age limit. Nigerian children born abroad and ho ld ing foreign passports are also entitled to the allowances, provided their status as Nigerians is confirmed. Business tr ip allowances are permitted for registered companies without any l im it placed on the amount that a company may enjoy in any calendar year. Foreign exchange remittances in the AFEM are allowed for all levels of educational studies in overseas institutions. Up to 20% of the fees for projects of very high technological content, for which indige- nous expertise is not available, may be remitted. n.a. Yes. n.a. The l im it is 75% of net salary after tax, subject to a documentation requirement. Indicative limits/bona fide test Evidence of income earned and taxes paid must be provided. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be received through the CBN or designated banks. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the CBN. Capital Transactions Applications for capital transfers abroad are approved by the FMF. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions may be conducted through authorized dealers, with prior permission of the FMF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 637 Purchase abroad by residents Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities, or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the FMF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. The permission of the FMF is required for companies (other than banks) registered in Nigeria that are controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to en- able companies to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Except for the purpose of f inanc ing imports or exports, permission is required from the FMF for any ind iv idua l, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the FMF. Yes. n.a. n.a. There are ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy. Nonresident investors may apply to the FMF for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration w i ll be given to fu ture requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and d iv idends. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission deals w i th all matters relating to approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 NIGERIA Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment and the prescription of applicable incentives for direct capital investment in priority areas. Approval of the FMF, which is subject to documentation requirements, is needed. Capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the DCP may be repatriated only 10 years after the effective investment of the proceeds, and is limited to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Changes During 1996 January 1. Importers were made responsible for the payment of the service charge for the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS) at rates to be determined and advised by the FMF. January 1. All exports, oil and non-oil, became subject to preshipment inspection by government-appointed inspection agents. January 1. The administration and disbursement of export incentives were entrusted to the Nigerian Export Promotion Council. January 1. Payments in foreign exchange of hotel bills by foreign visitors, airport tax, fees for the renewal of resident permits and allied services rendered by the Immigration Service, port and allied charges, international ticket fares, etc., became optional. Such payments can now be made in naira. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 11, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Norway is the Norwegian krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the Norwegian krone is determined by market forces; however, the Bank of Norway (BN) intervenes to ma in ta in stability. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control No. No. Yes. Exchange control authorities The BN, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs, exercises control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Restrictions have been imposed on financial transactions w i th Libya and Iraq (in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 661/90, 686/91, and 670/90). Sanc- tions against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022/1995) were l if ted in March 1996. No. No. A resident or nonresident who on entry into or departure from Norway is carrying Nor- wegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins equivalent to an amount in excess of NKr 25,000 a person, a journey, is obliged to no t i fy the Customs Adm in is tra t ion on entry or departure on the prescribed form. A resident or nonresident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, courier, or other form of transport, containing Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equ iva lent to an amount in excess of NKr 25,000, is obliged to no t ify the BN in wr i t ing. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts 639 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 640 NORWAY Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are certain measures imposed for sanitary reasons. All imports from Iraq and Libya are prohibited. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. Yes. These licenses are required for textiles. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Exports to any country un- der NKr 2,000 are exempt; for arms and ammunition, this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, NKr 1,000. Export taxes Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 641 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. The regulation prohibiting residents from contracting for an insurance policy other than nonlife insurance with a foreign insurance company that is not established within the territory of the EEA was abolished on December 11, 1996. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities The rule that a resident intending to buy or sell foreign securities that are not normally bought or sold in an EEA country is obliged to trade through a Norwegian securities broker was abolished on December 11, 1996. Purchase locally by nonresidents The restriction applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participat- ing nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Foreign exchange banks and financial institutions are subject to exposure regulation, and must submit reports on their net foreign currency position to the BN. Net positions of up to 10% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in individual currencies and the aggregate position must be kept w i th in 20% of the f inanc ial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There are no currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for invest- ment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance and pension funds for which net financial assets in a currency have to be equivalent to at least 80% of technical pro- visions in the same currency at any time. An insurance company cannot have negative financial assets in a currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws Other restrictions are inc luded in Act No. 52 (1981) on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Management. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 NORWAY Arrangements for payments and receipts Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Changes During 1996 March 8. Sanctions against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were lifted. December 11. The regulation prohibiting residents from contracting for an insurance policy other than nonlife insurance with a foreign insurance company that is not estab- lished within the territory of the EEA was abolished. December 11. The rule that a resident intending to buy or sell foreign securities that are not normally bought or sold in an EEA country is obliged to trade through a Norwegian securities broker was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the rial Omani is pegged to the U.S. dollar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. No. No. Yes. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. Payment arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Other Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The Central Bank of Oman (CBO) has exclusive exchange control authority; there is no exchange control legislation. Restrictions are imposed with respect to Israel. No. Controls on external trade Gold transactions w i th Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. 643 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 644 OMAN Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports. Companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Open general licenses n.a. Other nontariff measures All imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Customs duties range from 5% for most goods to 100% for imports of alcoholic bever- ages and limes. Customs duties are not levied on government imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. No. No. No. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. Re- mittances by commercial banks require prior approval from the CBO. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 645 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign share ownership in Omani companies is limited to 49%, but it could be raised to 100%. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Commercial credits The Oman Develpment Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give assistance in preinvestment research. In addition, the govern- ment provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial production for exportation, industrial produc- tion using indigenous raw materials or labor, or the development of tourism. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment in business firms in Oman by nonresidents requires prior approval. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. n. a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 40% of banks' capital and reserves. Changes During 1996 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1994. Currency The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee is set by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). No. No. Yes. Forward exchange cover for private foreign currency deposits is provided by the SBP, which charges an annual fee of 6.66%, 9.13%, 4.04%, and 4.75%, respectively, on de- posits in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Yes. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions are effected in AMUs, which is equal to $1. The SBP has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell foreign ex- change within limits prescribed by the SBP. No. No. The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the SBP; such permission is not usually granted. Imports are allowed through 3 dealers authorized by the government. An ind iv idual may take out up to PRs 500 and PRs 3,000 to India and to other countries, respectively. 646 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 647 On imports Domestic currency An ind iv idual may b r ing in up to PRs 500 from Ind ia and PRs 3,000 from other coun- tries. Coins from Ind ia may be imported up to Indian Rs 5 a person each time. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad, trave ler's checks, foreign currency notes, proceeds from foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs), foreign currency bearer certificates (FCBCs), and dollar bearer certificates (DBCs). Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from services of residents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan firms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of w i thdrawa l. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of 3 months and up to 5 years) is fixed by the SBP w i th the approval of the government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit bid rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit bid rates range from 0.75% for 3-month deposits to 2% for 5-year deposits. Balances of up to $1,000 can be he ld abroad w i th the approval of the SBP. Prior ap- proval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Pakistan nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether res id ing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are oth- erwise e l ig ib le to open fore ign currency accounts (FCAs) may open FCAs w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout the pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such ac- counts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders w ish ing to make payments in Paki- stan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistan nationals ho ld ing such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the for- eign exchange to the SBP. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from the ir overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, inc lud ing financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $5 m i l l i on (or the equ iva lent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least 3 months. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 0.5% above LIBOR. The accounts of ind iv idu a l s, f irms, or companies res id ing outside Pakistan are desig- nated nonres ident accounts. (D ifferent rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idua l s, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand .) Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident ac- counts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened w i th f u n ds received from abroad through bank ing channels or w i th rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 PAKISTAN Convertible into foreign currency When opened as convertible rupee accounts with funds received from abroad. Blocked accounts Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Clean-on-board shipped b i ll of lading and others as per contract or letters of credit are required. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection on some items was required up to March 1997. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import licenses are not required. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 34 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Importing of 16 items on the procedural list (e.g., petroleum) requires certain technical expertise. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons, or to discourage consumption of luxury items, or goods banned under international agreements. There are 13 import tariff rates ranging from 10% to 65%, and tariffs of 100% to 265% are levied on imports of automobiles and alcoholic beverages. In addition, a 10% regula- tory duty is imposed on most imported goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 4 months of shipment. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 4 months of shipment; in cases where exporters are not required to pay commission to the overseas buyers/agents, or they pay the commis- sion at a rate lower than the permissible rate, they can keep the commission differential up to 5% of the f.o.b. value of the goods in foreign currency accounts and these funds can be used for specific purposes. The surrender of Afghanis accruing from exports to the Islamic State of Afghanistan is not required. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order and the exporter's registration with the Export Promotion Bureau. Domiciliation Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Yes. Exports to Israel are not allowed. Export licenses are required for maize, cement, gram, split gram, and camels. There are no export duties; however, a nominal fee of 0.5% is chargeable on exports of cotton, tea, lac, tobacco, wheat, hides, and skins. Regulatory duties are levied on exports of tomatoes and uncrushed/crushed bones at rates ranging from 15% to 25%, and on exports of wet blue tanned hides and skins, at a rate of 50%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 649 Other export taxes The standard rate of income tax on export/import proceeds is 1%. It is reduced to 0.75% on exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan, and to 0.5% on exports of jewelry, ce- ramics, surgical equipment, and sporting goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Administrative expenses Quantitative limits Commissions Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Commission, brokerage, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice val- ues, 1% for cotton and cement, and more for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Quantitative limits Generally, the limits are set at 5% of the loan amount, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Profit/dividends The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and the airline business is permitted without restriction provided that the re- quired documents are submitted to the SBP. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The allowance for private travel to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India is $50 a day for up to 42 days dur ing a calendar year on submis- sion of travel documents to the authorized dealers. Requests for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts are to be referred by the authorized dealers to the SBP, g iv ing justification for the additional amount. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The entitlement can be used in installments. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods w i th annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 m i l l ion and exporters of serv- ices with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 m i l l ion are granted a renewable busi- ness travel allowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 a business trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a max imum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FCBCs. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Study abroad costs Approval is required on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tu i t ion fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the SBP. Quantitative limits Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at $1,200 a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 PAKISTAN Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits There is no l im it for individuals. For professional and specialized organizations, the l im it is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Pensions Prior approval Yes. Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Remittance of earnings is not allowed. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. Allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. There are no limits if the amount is charged to a foreign currency account of the card-holder. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered within 3 months. Travel agents and tour agents are per- mitted to retain up to 5% of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promotion expenses. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Residents are allowed to purchase shares abroad and transfer the required funds through the mechanism of FEBCs. Residents can sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds re- quired to service these security issues is permitted. There are no restrictions on the sale of securities purchases in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents can sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds required to service these security issues is permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 651 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no restrictions on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Residents can sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds re- quired to service these security issues is permissible. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Only rights shares exist. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits of up to 4 months with respect to exported goods, and up to 12 1/2 years w i th respect to the export of plants and machinery are permitted. To residents from nonresidents Credit with respect to imports of goods is permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions if the transaction relates to imports. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires prior approval under foreign exchange laws. Resident Pakistan nationals requ ire prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or immovab le assets held abroad, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Investment in the fo l low ing specified industries is not allowed: alcohol, specified indus- tries of arms and ammunitions, security pr in t ing, currency and m in t, and high explosives and radioactive substances. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Sale locally by nonresidents Disinvestment proceeds shou ld not exceed original investment. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Transactions are not allowed for temporary periods, and only if they become necessary for the normal course of business. Commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions are allowed to maintain foreign ac- counts; l im i ts for balances are fixed by the SBP in relation to the foreign exchange busi- ness hand led by each bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 652 PAKISTAN Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing is not permitted. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Lending is not permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Yes. Yes. Credit l im i ts apply to granting loans in domestic currency to companies controlled by nonresidents. The overall l im i ts range from 25% to 100% of paid-up capital of a com- pany depending on the sector of activity. No such limits apply to companies exporting at least 50% of the ir products. With the specific approval of the SBP, companies con- trolled by nonresidents and branches of foreign companies can contract foreign currency loans for meeting their working capital requirements. Additional rupee loans on a matching basis are also permitted by the SBP against such foreign currency loans. Investment regulations Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open position balances in Nostro Accounts are regulated by the Foreign Exchange Department. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 26, 1946. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the balboa. Locally issued currency is limited to coins, in- cluding several commemorative coins in small denominations. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama. Panama has issued 2 commemorative gold coins w i th face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal ten- der but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The currency of Panama is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of B 1 per $1. Commer- cial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry issues import licenses when required, and, through the Panama Trade Development Institute, determines all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment w i th countries in the region. The Minis- try of Finance and Treasury issues export licenses when required. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Develop- ment, and the Agricultural Marketing Institute, through various product-specific com- missions, determine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Panama reached an agreement with its creditor banks on a debt and debt-service reduc- tion operation and cleared oil debt obligations vis-a-vis Mexico and Venezuela. n.a. n.a. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry carried as personal effects by travelers require a license if effected by residents other than the monetary authorities. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, wh ich are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5%. 653 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 654 PANAMA Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures In general, import licenses are not required, but individuals or companies engaged in import activities require a commercial or industrial license. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Only a few products are banned or require special import permits. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. n.a. Import quotas are maintained on some products in the agricultural sector and agro- industries, including timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Contingent mechanisms of quotas for imports of agricultural goods are to be implemented in the second quarter of 1997. Most tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of im- ports. For some products, the tax is specific. In cases where both tax rates are stated, the applicable rate is the one that produces the higher tax revenue. If the tax is specific, an additional tax of 7.5% on the c.i.f. value is charged, except for (1) specified pharmaceu- tical products and foodstuffs, for which the additional tax rates are 2.5% and 3.5%, re- spectively; (2) books and certain agricultural inputs, which are duty free; and (3) specified raw materials for manufacturing, for which the tax is 5%. The range of tariffs for the main agricultural products is between 15% and 60%; the tariff rate on raw materials for the manufacturing sector is 3%. The maximum tariff for agro-industrial products is 40% and for industrial products 50%, with the exception of certain products. All imports into the city of Col6n designated as the Colon Free Zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes PANAMA 655 Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Specific export licenses are requ ired for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Any product ( inc lud ing raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Colon Free Zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported w i thout being subject to customs procedures. n.a. n.a. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unref ined sugar, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain nontraditional exports (with a m in imum local cost-of-production content of 20%) are e l ig ib le for tax credit certificates equ iva lent to 20% of va lue added. Export processing zones are exempt from all taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Some foreign-controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only w i th nonresidents. Borrowing abroad n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 656 PANAMA Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments Changes During 1996 October 2. The General Council of the WTO approved Panama's Protocol of Accession. (The ratification of this Protocol by the Assembly w i ll take place in the second quarter of 1997, and the Assembly will have to approve a number of laws to bring Panamanian regulations in line with the Protocol.) December 26. Import tariffs were reduced to a maximum of 50% for industrial products and to 40% for agro-industrial products; specific taxes on imports were transformed into ad valorem taxes; quotas, restrictive import permit requirements, bans, and reference prices were eliminated, except for those explicitly permitted under the WTO agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the kina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the kina is determined freely in the interbank market in which authorized dealer banks participate with the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) acting as broker. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers w i th in a maximum spread between the buy ing and selling rates of 2%. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover with the commercial banks at market-determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential l im it on its uncovered forward position. Official cover of forward operations At its discretion, the BPNG may intervene in the forward exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Payment arrangements No. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Foreign exchange control is administered by the BPNG under the Central Banking Act. Overall policy is determined by the government with the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Papua New Gu inea no t if ied the IMF on Ju ly 22, 1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Counc il Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). n.a. No. The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in the ir respective m in ing agreements. For exports of a l luv ial gold, specific export licenses are required from the BPNG. 657 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Travelers wishing to take or send out domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins must obtain approval from the BPNG. Domestic coins issued for numis- matic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency they brought in and declared on arrival. Domestic currency n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. These accounts are permitted; resident business entities are required to obtain BPNG approval, except for term deposits placed for a m in imum of 90 days. Held abroad n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Authorized dealers may, without referring to the BPNG, approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or licensing requirements. Authorized dealers may make payments up to K 5,000 upon presentation of commercial invoices. Payments in excess of K 5,000 require a set of shipping documents and a copy of the customs forms, as well as commercial invoices. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security, while others are prohibited to protect domestic markets, including sugar, poultry, and pork. The importation of most fresh fruits and vegetables is banned (except for apples, onions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50% tariff. Licenses witK quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs The import tariff regime consists of the following rates: (1) zero rate for essential items ( inc lud ing food staples such as rice and meat not produced domestically); (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods ( inc lud ing some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 659 intermediate goods; (4) 55% for luxury goods; and (5) 15% or 100% for selected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as tinned mackerel and citrus fruits. On December 31, 1996, the import ban on sugar was replaced with an 85% tariff. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be received w i th in 6 months of the date of export. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. No. No. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the BPNG for specific authorization. Licenses are required for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, wood- chips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued sub- ject to m in imum export price gu ide l ines. n.a. Although exports of unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except for those on fish (10%) and logs (15% to 70%). Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are controls on these payments, but approval is readily granted for most, prov ided that supporting documentation is submitted. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for all adu lt ind iv idua ls and corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of this amount, except trade-related and debt-service payments, must be referred to the BPNG. For payments or transfers exceeding the equ iva lent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Payments for the servicing of foreign debt may be approved w i thout a fixed l im it by authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the BPNG. Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea, or for its retention. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments There are no restrictions for inward portfolio investment. Authorized dealers may ap- prove outward investments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year; investment in excess of the equ iva lent of K 500,000 requires the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 660 PAPUA NEW GUINEA approval of the BPNG. Income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Gu inea as received. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these trans- actions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Permission is required for these credits; however, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses invo lved in the forestry sector or mineral resources exploration, without limit, provided that the term is for not less than 1 year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the BPNG. Repayment of principal is subject to a 6-month morato- r ium, commencing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debMo-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstanding borrowing. In the case of a business involved in mineral re- source exploration activities, inward investment is considered non-interest-bearing eq- uity or loan funds ( inc lud ing preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the minimum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 661 To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Proceeds may be transferred, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Imports and import payments December 31. The import ban on sugar was replaced with an 85% tariff. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 23, 1994. Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan guarani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The authorities do not maintain margins with respect to foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined in the exchange market. The Central Bank of Para- guay (CBP) intervenes in the market to smooth out any sharp fluctuations in the ex- change rate of the guarani due to seasonal changes in demand and supply conditions as well as to speculative capital flows. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the CBP and other central banks participating in the multilat- eral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every 4 months. The CBP has the authority to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other agencies of the government. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of CBP, which is responsible for implementing its decisions. The CBP supervises through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. The CBP regulates open foreign exchange positions. No. No. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior authorization of the CBP. Payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through commercial banks. 662 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 663 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Preshipment inspection All products must be inspected. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of certain products that may be ha rm ful to pub l ic health, national security, or animal or plant health are prohibited. However, these restrictions may be waived to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Paraguay, as a member of the MERCOSUR, applies its common external tar iff, wh ich is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay was allowed to exempt 399 items from the CET—these exemptions are to be phased out by 2006 by gradually raising tariff rates to 14% on most capital goods and to 20% for telecommunications. Typical rates on goods exempt from the CET are zero for raw materials and intermediate goods; 5% for capital goods; 6% for items for tourism; 10% for consumer goods; 15% for ve- hicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $10,000; and 20% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value ex- ceeds $20,000. S im i lar ly, on intra-MERCOSUR trade, Paraguay was allowed 427 exceptions to free trade with tariff rates ranging from 6% to 30% to be phased out by 2001. The CBP levies a commission of 0.125% on all import payments made under the LAIA Reciprocal Payments Agreement. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 PARAGUAY State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The proceeds of exports must be collected through the financial system w i th in 120 days of completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents. This re- quirement was eliminated on October 1, 1996. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, rawhides, and wild animals are pro- hibited. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. All other exports are not restricted, except with regard to technical standards imposed by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the product exported. With quotas Export taxes n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Prior approval There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, interest, commissions, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, family maintenance, or the use of credit cards abroad. Only financial enterprises require authorization of the CBP to transfer earnings. The government may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges on pro- posed investments that are du ly registered and approved. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles, except for royalties and remuneration from the binational entities administering the ITAIPU and YACERITA dams, which are transferred in fu ll to the CBP for the account of the Minis- try of Finance. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 665 Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements Reserves should be constituted in foreign currency, Liquid asset requirements n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks may maintain a daily foreign exchange overbought position not ex- ceeding 100% of their capital and reserves, or an oversold position of up to 50% of their capital and reserves. Exchange houses may maintain a daily overbought position of up to $250,000. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. Changes During 1996 Imports and import payments January 1. External tariffs started^o be redtfced gradually under the MERCOSUR agreement. /^ / Exports and export proceeds October 1. The repatriation requirement was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Peru is the nuevo sol. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined freely by supply and demand. Cross rates with nondollar currencies are determined against the U.S. dollar. No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions take place only in the commercial banking sector. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for purchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector and by the private sector with government guarantee is subject to prior approval by supreme decree within the limits established by the Financing Requirement Law of the public sector. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrears are maintained on nonguaranteed credits of suppliers, commercial banks, and o f f ic ial loans obtained from Eastern European countries. Yes. No. No. 666 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 667 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Preinspection at the port of embarkation by international firms for imports exceeding $2,000 is required. However, this is not a requirement for the release of foreign exchange. n.a. Imports may be prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Imported goods are subject to a un i fo rm value-added tax of 18% of their c.i.f. value in addition to the import duty. Some agricultural products are exempted from the value- added tax. The tariff rate on about 13% of import items is 25%, and the remaining prod- ucts are subject to a 15% rate, excluding imports subject to trade agreements. Raw ma- terials and intermediate goods imported under the Temporary Admission Regime are exempt from import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 668 PERU Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments These payments are free except for pub l ic debt-service payments, which are subject to payment authorization. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The issue of bonds in foreign currency by a domestic bank of maturity larger than 1 year average, and placed in a foreign country, is subject to the m in imum reserve requirement ranging from 9% to 30% of the issuing entity's capital. These issues must be followed by a first-class foreign underwriter or arranger. The placement of amounts above the 30% l im it is subject to the general reserve requirements. No. No. Foreign investment by petroleum companies is subject to special contracts with the government. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits and credits contingent granted by resident banks to nonresident banks or other financial institutions, p lus deposit accounts held in these nonresident institutions cannot exceed the fo l low ing limits relative to the bank's effective capital: (1) 5% if the finan- cial ins t i tu t ion is not supervised by an entity similar to the "Superintendencia de Banca y Seguros de Peru"; (2) 10% if the nonresident financial institution is supervised by an entity similar to the "Superintendencia de Banca y Seguros de Peru"; (3) 30% if the financial institution is a first-class bank; and (4) 50% if the excess in each of the preced- ing cases corresponds to letters of credit, excluding those corresponding to the payment agreement and reciprocal credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 669 Also, contingent credits and leasing granted by resident banks to nonresident ind iv idua ls or institutions, excluding nonresident banks or other financial institutions covered by Article 211 (Law No. 26702 of December 9, 1996), cannot exceed 5% of their effective capital. The above limits can be raised to 10% if the following guarantees are provided for the excess over the limit: (1) mortgages; and (2) securities issued by an institution listed in the stock market and whose quality is guaranteed by the specialized institution in that country. On a very limited basis, the limits of 5% and 10% can be raised to 40% of the effective equity if the following guarantees are provided for the excess over the l im i t: (1) deposits in the bank; and (2) securities, guarantees, and other liabilities of a bank with an arrangement under the payment agreement and reciprocal credits or with a first-class nonresident bank. The deposit accounts in foreign currency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 45%. However, the CRBP remunerates the 36% additional reserve requirement with the 3-month LIBOR rate. The other 9 percentage points of the obligatory reserve re- quirement are not remunerated. This requirement is applied to all deposit accounts and does not discriminate between residents and nonresidents. Also, domestic currency obli- gations of financial institutions linked to changes in the exchange rate and domestic currency deposits related to swap operations are subject to 45% of the reserve requirement. The l im it for pension funds is 5% of the fund. A maximum of 40% in government and central bank securities jo in t ly or a max imum of 30% for each; 40% in deposits in or financial system bonds jo in t ly (or 30% and 25% individually, respectively); 40% in other mortgage securities; 10% in short-term finan- cial instruments; 35% in private enterprise bonds; 30% jo in t ly (or 30% respectively) in mutual funds, derivatives, and representative stocks of social capital; 35% in variable rent instruments; and among the latter, 35% in convertible stocks and labor stocks. Reserve requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions November 23. The max imum level of participation of variable rent instruments in insti- Changes During 1996 PHILIPPINES (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine peso. Various denominations of gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign ex- change market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) intervenes when neces- sary to limit sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and to maintain orderly conditions in the market. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS), an electronic screen-based network. The PDS allows trading between 8:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. daily among authorized agent banks and the BSP. The exchange rate of the peso vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar at the beginning of the trading day is the weighted average of all transactions in the PDS during the preceding day. No. No. All forward transactions to purchase foreign exchange from nonresidents, including renewals thereof, require prior clearance by the BSP. Official cover of forward operations The cover facility for oil import financing was discontinued in February 1997. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all for- eign exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in the following acceptable currencies: Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the BSP. Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, provided that the BSP is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy deci- sions adopted by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 670 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 671 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Small-scale miners are required to sell all of the ir produc t ion to the BSP. All forms or types of gold may be bought and sold w i thout specific approval of the BSP. Producers selling gold to the BSP are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London f ix ing price and the prevailing Ph i l ipp ine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of the official international reserves. The BSP may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and indus- trial users, at the BSP's gold-selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, inc lud ing the costs of conversion and packaging. Gold produced by small-scale miners must be sold to the BSP; all other forms of gold may be exported. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially of gold, gold coins, and coins w i thout any ind ica t ion of actual fineness of gold content. Resident and nonresident travelers must obtain prior authorization from the BSP to take out more than P 10,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. Departing nonresidents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos up to a max imum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign exchange w i thout proof of sales of foreign exchange to authorized agent banks. Travelers may bring in freely up to P 10,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. The importation ex- ceeding that amount requires prior authorization from the BSP. Foreign currency Travelers may bring in freely any amount of foreign currency. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident accounts may be credited only w i th the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and w i th peso income earned by nonresidents from the Ph i l ipp ines. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident peso deposit accounts may be freely w i thdrawn. Convertible into foreign currency Conversion of domestic currency accounts is allowed only up to the equivalent amount of foreign exchange remitted to the Ph i l ipp ines as well as to the equ iva lent amount of peso income earned by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses PHILIPPINES Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for payments of imports under letters of credit (LCs), documents against acceptance (D/A), documents against payments (D/P), open account (OA) arrangement, and direct remittance. Registration of D/A and OA imports with the BSP for monitoring purposes is needed only if payments are to be made from the banking system; prior approval of the BSP, regardless of maturity, is not required. Any extension of maturities must be reported to the BSP 30 days before the effective date. Import arrangements not invo lv ing payments using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, such as self-funded no-dollar imports and importa- tion on a consignment basis, are allowed without prior approval from the BSP. Under the Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 from all countries. Imports declared in the shipping documents as off quality, used, secondhand, scraps, off grade, or a similar term indicating that the article is not brand new are subject to CISS inspection even if the value of the imports is less than $500. LCs must be opened on or before the date of shipment with a validity period of up to 1 year. Only 1 LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval except when amendment shall extend the total validity of the LC beyond 1 year. Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. Yes. The importation of certain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of pub l ic health and safety, national security, international commitments, and development and ration- alization of local industries. Commodity imports are classified into 3 categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. To import regulated products, a clearance or permit is required from the appropriate government agency ( inc lud ing the BSP). Licenses with quotas Quantitative restrictions are imposed on imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import tariff structure consists of 4 rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on im- ported capital goods are 3% and 10%, with the former applying to goods without do- mestic substitutes. Deviations from the standard rates include (1) up to double the applicable standard rate for imports of final goods in industries that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Investment (BOI), and imports of agricultural products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed under the WTO agreement; and (2) duty exemptions for certain imported capital goods registered with the BOI prior to January 1, 1995 or subject to provisions of RA 7369 and RA 7844 of the Export Devel- opment Act. Some 300 products under RA 7369 are duty exempt, as are imports of ma- chinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts used in export manufacturing. The BOI no longer offers tax and duty exemptions on imports of capital equipment and spare parts. Instead, newly registered firms may only obtain duty reductions on eligible im- ports to 3%. Tariff rates in the textile and apparel sectors are 3% for inputs and 30% for final products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 673 Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Payments for exports may be made in acceptable currencies in the fo l low ing forms without prior BSP approval: LCs, D/Ps, D/As, OA arrangements, cash against docu- ments arrangements, consignment, export advance, and prepayment. Documentation requirements All exports must be covered by an export declaration issued by the Department of Trade and Industry duly prepared by the exporter. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of selected seeds and shoots of native plants, endangered fish and w i ld l i fe ( inc lud ing selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to residents for nontrade payments, except obligations related to foreign loans or foreign investments up to $25,000, without written application or supporting documents from the buyer. For amounts exceeding $25,000, the banks re- quire a written application and supporting documents from the buyer. On January 15, 1997, the ceiling was raised to $50,000 for sales with no written application and sup- porting documents required. The implementing guidelines on this amendment, however, have not yet been issued. Service payments on foreign loans effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has previously been registered with the BSP. Unregistered loans can be serviced also through transactions in the nonbank market. Service payments relating to foreign direct investments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose origi- nal capital transfer has previously been registered with the BSP. Unregistered invest- ments can also be serviced through transactions in the nonbank market. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the BSP or designated custodian bank is required. As a general rule, registration w i th the BSP of foreign investments in the form of government securities, securities listed in the Ph i l ipp ine Stock Exchange, money market instruments, or bank deposits is not mandatory. Said registration is necessary only if the source of the foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 674 PHILIPPINES Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents exchange needed for capital repatriation and remittance of dividends, profits and earn- ings which accrue thereon is purchased from the banking system. Sale or issue of securities in the Philippines is allowed only after the proper license to do business in the country is secured by the nonresident from the appropriate government agency (ies). Residents may invest abroad without registering their investments with the BSP only if (1) the investment is funded by withdrawals from Foreign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs); (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to authorized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the banking system but in amounts less than $6 million for an investor a year. For amounts above $6 m i l l ion (an investor a year), prior approval and registration with the BSP is required. Registration with the BSP or designated custodian bank is required. In addition, sales proceeds from international allocations of initial public offerings and shares of domestic companies listed in foreign stock exchanges must also be reported to the BSP within 5 days of receipt and remitted inwardly to the country. The servicing or transfer of funds pertaining to registered investments using foreign exchange from the banking system in this category is allowed without BSP approval. On money market instruments The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents , Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Prior BSP approval is required for transactions in these instruments. Only banks and nonbank financial intermediaries performing quasibanking functions and their affili- ates/subsidiaries duly authorized by the BSP are allowed to deal in derivative transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior BSP approval and registration are required for guaranteed, short-term trade-related loans contracted by nonbank residents. For those not covered by public sector guaran- tees, prior authority to incur the obligation is not required. They are still, however, sub- ject to the registration requirement for debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Credits require prior BSP approval. The usual restrictions on outward remittances and registration requirements apply. As a general rule, all foreign loans contracted by nonbank residents with guarantees from the pub l ic sector or from local commercial banks require prior BSP approval or registration. Those not covered by guarantees are required to be registered only to make them eligible for subsequent debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Guarantees for the account of the pub l ic sector, as well as those issued by government- owned and controlled corporations in favor of nonresidents, requ ire prior BSP approval. Specific guarantees for the account of the private sector do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servic- ing using foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents PHILIPPINES 675 Guarantees issued by foreign banks and f inanc ial institutions to secure obligations of residents involved in foreign lend ing operations require pr ior BSP approval. Those issued to secure authorized peso loans or FCDU loans, as well as foreign obligations (which do not invo lve foreign lend ing) of local firms, do not requ ire pr ior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing using foreign exchange to be purchased from the bank ing system in the event of a de- fau lt by the pr inc ipal debtor. Controls on direct investment The same regulations apply as for investments in money market instruments. Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment BSP-registered foreign investments enjoy fu ll and immediate repatriation of capital and remittance of profits, d iv idends, and other earnings. Controls on real estate transactions The same regulations apply as for investments in money market ins trumen ts. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of land by nonresidents as well as the exploration, development, and utiliza- tion of natural resources is limited to 40% equity and is subject to the provisions of the Ph i l ipp ines Constitution. Sale locally by nonresidents For sale of real estate by nonresidents not pertaining to BSP-registered investments, they may purchase only as much foreign exchange as they sold to AABs for pesos. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Commercial banks authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may borrow from other FCDUs, nonresidents, and offshore banking units, sub- ject to existing rules on foreign borrowings. Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the fo l low ing modes of payment w i thout prior BSP approval: LCs, D/Ps or cash against payment, D/As, OA arrangements, intercompany open account offset, consignments, and export advances. Commercial banks, wh ich are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign cur- rency deposit system, may grant foreign currency loans as may be allowed by the BSP. The following foreign currency loans may be granted by FCDUs of commercial banks w i thout prior BSP approval: (1) private sector loans, if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange to be obtained outside the banking system; (2) short-term loans to financial institutions for normal interbank transactions; and (3) short-term loans to commodity and service exporters, and producers/manufacturers, provided that the loan proceeds are to be used to finance the import costs of goods and services necessary in the production of goods. Regular units of commercial banks may also grant foreign currency loans to residents invo lv ing trade transactions. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange An Expanded Foreign Currency Deposit Un it (EFCDU) of commercial banks may in- vest in foreign-currency-denominated securities. Open foreign exchange position limits Depository banks operating FCDUs or EFCDUs need to maintain f u ll cover for the ir foreign currency liabilities at all times. For FCDUs, at least 70% of the said cover must be maintained in the same currency of the l iab i l i ty and up to 30% may be denominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. Long and short foreign exchange positions of banks must not exceed 20% and 10%, respectively, of their total un impa ired capital. Any excess beyond the l im it must be settled da i ly. Provisions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on por tfo l io invested abroad Except as may be authorized by the Monetary Board, the total equity investments in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by any investment house w i th quasi- banking func t ions shall not at any time exceed 15% of their net worth. Outward invest- ments by residents in amounts exceeding $6 m i l l ion require pr ior approval and registra- tion by the BSP. For amounts not exceeding $6 m i l l ion, the funds to be invested may be purchased from authorized agent banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 676 PHILIPPINES Other controls imposed by securities laws As a general rule, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the public within the country unless such securities have been registered and permitted to be sold by the Se- curities Exchange Commission (SEC). A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded in a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Philippines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesman must register with the SEC to do business in the country. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements March L The PDS mechanism to limit volatility in the exchange rate (by halting trading for 2 hours) was eliminated. Imports and import payments May 16. Certain quantitative restrictions on specified agricultural products were lifted. Exports and export proceeds Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions June 16. The requirement of prior clearance from the Department of Energy or the En- ergy Regulatory Board for importation of refined petroleum products and exportation of oil and petroleum products was abolished. April 17. The authority to issue export declarations was transferred from the BSP to the Department of Trade and Industry, and the delegated authority of commercial banks and offshore banking units to issue and register export declarations was withdrawn. December 31. The requirement to present a valid certification from the Inter-Agency Committee on Domestic Borrowings of Foreign Firms that the applicant foreign firm meets the guidelines prescribed by the Monetary Board on such domestic borrowings was eliminated. August 1. The func t ion ing of the Inter-Agency Committee created to administer peso borrowings of foreign companies was discontinued effective January 1997. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements February 8. All forward transactions, inc lud ing renewals thereof, from nonresidents require prior approval of the BSP. Official forward exchange cover for oil import fi- nancing was discontinued. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January 15. The Monetary Board Resolution No. 40 raised the ceiling for authorized banks to provide foreign exchange for these payments to $50,000 from $25,000. Capital transactions February 6. The issuance of peso-denominated instruments in the international capital markets, as well as inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Philippines and sale thereof for pesos to the local banking system and resident enterprises participating in such activity, require prior BSP approval. March 15. Loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs and offshore sources, and nonresident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer require prior BSP approval. Foreign currency deposits are eligible as collateral for peso loans or foreign currency loans to residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Poland is the zloty, w i th 100 groszy per one zloty. New currency notes and coins were issued on January 1, 1995, replacing the old currency at a rate of 1 to 10,000. (Old currency remained in circulation un t il the end of 1996.) Other legal tender Coins made from precious metals are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative The central exchange rate of the zloty is pegged to a basket of 5 currencies. The central rate is adjusted under a crawling peg policy at a preannounced rate. Since May 16, 1995, the National Bank of Poland (NBP) has allowed the exchange rate of the zloty at the interbank market to fluctuate w i th in margins of ±7% around the central rate. Once a day, the NBP quotes f ix ing rates (i.e., off ic ial market rates) for U.S. dollars and deutsche mark, with f ix ing rates for other convertible currencies determined on the basis of cross- exchange rates on international markets; f ix ing rates fluctuate w i th in a ±7% margin around the central parity. The NBP quotes exchange rates daily for 20 convertible cur- rencies, the ECU, and the SDR. Outside the interbank market, banks are permitted to set freely their buy ing and selling rates in transactions with their clients. The exchange rate on the foreign exchange bureau market (kantors), in which natural persons are allowed to transact freely, provided that the transaction is not a commercial one, is determined by market forces. No. No. There are no formal forward exchange market arrangements, but a forward market exists for the stock market. However, large commercial banks provide forward contracts if requested. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outstanding balances under the inoperative bilateral payments agreements are being settled in accordance w i th the terms of the agreements. Balances outstanding under the arrangements of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any con- vertible currency. There are agreements w i th Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, Ind ia, Iraq, Russia, Syria, Tunisia, and Turkey. Clearing agreements There are inoperative agreements w i th members of the former CMEA. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The authority to make basic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests w i th parlia- ment. Regu la t ions are promu lga ted by the M in is try of Finance (MOF), in cooperation 677 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 POLAND with the president of the NBP, in the form of general foreign exchange permits, or by the president of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, and for specified groups. The procedures for issuing individual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the MOF. Decisions concerning individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the NBP, foreign exchange banks, border guards, and post offices. Poland notified the IMF that, in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, it had imposed and maintained a ban on trade with Iraq and on exports of certain products to Libya and that licenses are required for trade (and transit through Poland) with Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a ban on the supply of weapons and military equipment to Liberia, Somalia, Angola (also for crude oil, the ban is applicable only to UNITA rebel forces), and Rwanda (the ban is applicable only to rebel forces). International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Resident ind iv idua ls may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewelry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. Controls on external trade Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign ex- change. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Under the general foreign exchange permit, Polish nationals may take abroad up to ECU 5,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Docu- mentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within 2 months of returning to Poland. For official and business travel, allowances are based on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Nonresidents are free to take out of Poland up to ECU 2,000 or its equivalent; higher amounts are allowed up to the amount declared upon entry into the country. Nonresidents entering Poland are permitted to have up to ECU 2,000 or its equivalent in convertible currencies; higher amounts must be declared upon entry into the country. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who are natural persons may maintain foreign currency accounts ("A" ac- counts), and these accounts may be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or deposited without declaring the sources of funds. Balances in these accounts can be sold in foreign bureau markets; withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Funds in A accounts cannot be used for business activities. When leaving the country permanently, indi- viduals are allowed, under the general foreign exchange permit, to transfer all funds from this account. Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 679 Held abroad Residents ( ind iv idua ls and enterprises) carrying out economic activity abroad may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad to cover costs of such activity. The NBP must be notified about accounts opened abroad, and quarterly balances in these accounts must be reported to the NBP. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. The same regulations apply to both. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts There are two types of convertible currency accounts for nonresidents, natural, and ju- r id ical persons: (1) unrestricted accounts ("rachunek wolny") that may be opened in any licensed fore ign exchange bank; they may or may not pay interest, depend ing on an agreement w i th the bank. Unrestricted accounts may be credited only with funds that are freely transferable abroad. These accounts may also be credited w i th domestic currency that could be converted into foreign currencies and transferred abroad. The fo l low ing sources of funds allow later transfer abroad: (a) transfers from abroad or foreign cur- rencies declared at the border; (b) claims on residents resulting from foreign transactions in goods, services, or intellectual property; (c) inheritances and bequests for foreign persons; (d) remuneration for legal work for residents; (e) documented income from securities legally acquired in Poland; (f) reimbursements for overpaid taxes; and (g) receivables resulting from court, administrative, or arbitrage ru l ings; and (2) "C" ac- counts that may be maintained only in convertible currencies; these accounts may or may not pay interest, depend ing on an agreement w i th the bank. There is no control on sources of funds deposited at C accounts. However, there are l im i ta t ions on transfers abroad from C accounts, and the l im i ta t ions are the same as for unrestricted accounts. These accounts may or may not pay interest, depend ing on an agreement w i th the bank, and they can be credited w i th funds from any title, but conversion into foreign currency and/or transfer abroad is subject to authorization, except for funds freely transferable abroad (see unrestricted accounts above). Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Licenses are not requ ired for imports from the convertible currency area, w i th the ex- ception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment; alcoholic beverages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from b i tum inous minerals; gasoline and light oils; natural gas and other gaseous hydrocarbons; and goods for in- dustrial assembly of motor vehicles. The importation of passenger cars and other passenger vehicles older than 10 years; trucks, vans, other u t i l i ty cars, and passenger vehicles older than 3 years for transporta- t ion of more than 10 persons; cars w i th 2-cycle engines; and combine harvesters is pro- h ib i ted. The importation of petroleum oils and oils obtained from b i tum inous m inera ls is subject to quantitative quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 POLAND Import taxes and/or tar iffs All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. As of January 1, 1996, new import tariffs based on the Har- monized System (HS 1996) and the Combined Nomenclature of the EU (CN 1996) were introduced, with 6 basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; up to 3.6% on other raw materials; 7.4% to 11% on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 14.6% to 27.4% on industrial goods; 26.6% to 40% on agriculture and textile products; and 30% on luxury goods. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 42 de- veloping countries, tropical products from chapters 6 to 24 of the HS, and many goods from chapters 32 and 94 of the HS that are of interest to developing countries enter Po- land duty free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing coun- tries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Imports are subject to an import surcharge of 3%; duties and taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds should be repatriated immediately. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas No. No. Licenses are required for exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing. Exports of raw hides and skins of bov ine or equine animals, pickled or otherwise pre- served; raw skins of sheep and lambs; leather of bovine or equine animals, and other animals w i thout fu r; ferrous waste and scrap; remelting scrap ingots of iron and steel; and waste and scrap of copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. Licenses are required for exports of coal, petroleum oils, and oils obtained from bitumi- nous minerals; crude petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons; radioactive ma- terials; and military equipment. Export licenses are required for goods subject to export quotas. Exports that are prohibited include (1) live poultry, i.e., fowls of the species Callus Domesticus, ducks, geese, turkeys, and guinea fowls; (2) goose eggs fresh, pre- served, or cooked; and (3) trade with Libya with respect to chemical catalyzers, pipes and tubes, steel chains, hyd rau l ic and gas pumps, chemical installations, laboratory equipment, and automation equipment. All trade with Iraq is prohibited. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, interest, commissions, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, the use of credit cards abroad, or on remittances of profits and d iv idends. There is no specific l im it for off ic ial and business travel. Official and business travelers are allowed to take out foreign currency bought in banks up to the amounts on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 681 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Pensions Prior approval Domestic individuals who wish to transfer their pension abroad have to apply for an individual foreign exchange permit. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Family maintenance/alimony No restrictions apply to alimony benefits granted to foreign nationals. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated immediately. Natural persons receiving proceeds wh i le they are abroad must repatriate the proceeds within 2 months after returning to Poland. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchase of Polish securities by nonresidents is free, except for shares of which the freedom to purchase can be l im i ted by Poland's restrictions of foreign direct investment. Nonresidents are permitted to issue securities with maturities of 1 year or longer; these securities must be approved by the Security and Exchange Commission, and the overall l im it on purchase of such securities is set at ECU 200 m i l l ion a year. In OECD countries and countries having agreements on investment protection with Poland, residents are permitted to (1) acquire stakes in foreign companies if the stake gives at least 10% of votes, and (2) purchase securities issued with maturity not less than 1 year up to the amount of ECU 1,000 or its equivalent. Residents are permitted to issue securities with maturity of 1 year and longer on foreign markets. Residents issuing securities abroad must no t ify the NBP w i th in 20 days from the transaction. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBP approval is requ i red. Purchase abroad by residents NBP approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBP approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 POLAND On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. The NBP must be notified within 20 days of granting the credits. Financial credits with maturities of 1 year or more were liberalized by the general for- eign exchange permit effective April 1996. Financial credits with maturities below 1 year continue to need a permit with the exception of authorized banks. An NBP's foreign exchange permit is required for residents contracting financial credits with nonresidents, with the exception of (1) credits granted by authorized banks; (2) credits granted to residents by international banks guaranteed by the Council of Minis- ters or the NBP for financing investments in the country; and (3) credits contracted by residents abroad with the maturity of 1 year or more from the date of contracting the credit. An NBP's foreign exchange permit is required, with the exception of (1) guarantees or sureties provided by the authorized banks; (2) guarantees and sureties provided by resi- dents to nonresidents for performing financial obligations under the purchase of goods, services, and incorporeal rights; and (3) guarantees and sureties for performing financial obligations of residents under foreign contracts for goods, services, and incorporeal rights. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment An NBP's foreign exchange permit is required, with the exception of (1) purchasing shares and interests of companies based in OECD countries and in the countries with which Poland has ratified agreements on the mutual safeguard of investments with the total value of investment up to the equivalent of ECU 1 m i l l ion with shares comprising at least 10% of the total votes at respective shareholders' meetings, and (2) purchasing or opening a branch or company in OECD cpuntries. New businesses need to register only with local courts, with the exception of (1) merg- ers with state-owned companies if state assets are to be utilized for more than 6 months or if state assets w i ll become part of the capital, and (2) investments in the areas of air transport, broadcasting, insurance, domestic long distance or mob i le telecommunica- tions, and gambling and betting. Imports of capital goods for new jo int ventures are exempt from customs duties. Although the law does not stipulate a m in imum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, the m in imum capital requirement set forth in the Polish commercial code for a limited liability or equity company is in effect and is applied to foreign investment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The transfer of prof i ts from joint ventures and from investments in shares of Polish companies is not restricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are discharged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents POLAND 683 An NBP's foreign exchange permit is required for the purchase abroad by residents (natural persons) of real estate located abroad at the price on the day of such purchase totaling in excess of the equivalent of ECU 50,000, and for the transfer abroad of the foreign currency requ ired for the purchase of such real estate. Un t il recently, nonresidents could acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of the Interior, except in the form of an inheritance. The amended Law on Acquisition of Real Estate by Foreigners, wh ich went into effect on May 4, 1996, maintained th is general rule, but introduced several impor- tant exemptions. Foreigners may acquire real estate w i thout permit if (1) it is a separate apartment; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least 5 years after getting a permanent residence visa; (3) they are married to a Polish citizen for at least 2 years (purchased real estate must form a part of ma tr imon ial commun i ty of property); or (4) real estate is pur- chased by nonresident legal persons for statutory purposes, and the area of real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban areas. The Counc il of Ministers may issue a regulation de f in ing other cases where a permit is not required, p rov id ing that the area of acquired real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban and 10,000 square meters in rural areas. The Counc il of Ministers may also extend the area to be acquired w i thout permit to 12,000 square meters in urban and 30,000 square meters in rural areas. Sale locally by nonresidents An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for the transfer abroad by nonresidents of the proceeds associated w i th the sale of real estate converted into foreign currency. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Banks are permitted to purchase securities abroad within the limits specified in the regulation by the president of the NBP on the k inds of securities issued abroad to be purchased by authorized banks. A bank's open (net) foreign currency position (long or short) in relation to a single for- eign currency may not exceed 15% of the bank's capital. The president of the NBP, on the bank's motion, may consent to a foreign currency paid in consideration for equity to be included in computation of the bank's foreign currency position. There are no pension funds in Poland. Insurance companies are not affected by the foreign exchange operations in the country, and a MOF permit is required to commence insurance business. The MOF permit is required for investments by nonresidents in insurance companies through shares allow- ing for 25%, 33%, 50%, 60%, and 75% of votes, respectively, at general shareholders' meetings. Currently, there are restrictions on start-up of foreign insurance companies operation in the country (they w i ll be permitted to operate as of January 1999 under the MOF permit). Pruden t ial regulations establishing l im i ts for investment of insurance funds in the country and abroad are provided by the act on insurance operating activity. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in participating units issued by trust funds. There are no foreign exchange restrictions on the transfer abroad by nonresidents of foreign cur- rency purchase against Polish currency associated w i th remission of participating un i ts in trust funds. L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min .) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 POLAND Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements January 8. Rate of crawl was reduced by 1% a month. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 3. The ban on trade with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), imposed in l ine with UN Security Council resolutions, was lifted. Imports and import payments Capital transactions January 1. Import tariffs were lowered to zero to 3.6% for raw materials; 7.4% to 11% for basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 14.6% to 27.4% for industrial goods; 26.6% to 40% for agriculture and textile products; and 30% for luxury goods. January 1. The import surcharge was lowered to 3% from 5%. February 1. Direct investments of the Polish residents in the OECD countries and countries that concluded bilateral agreements on investment protection with Poland were allowed up to the l im it of ECU 1 m i l l ion. Transfer of gifts and inheritance for family members, purchase of real estate abroad and purchase of publicly traded securi- ties (with maturity not less than 1 year) issued in OECD countries, and borrowing and lending activities were also liberalized. May 4. The amended Law on Acquisition of Real Estate by Foreigners became effective. Changes During 1997 Payments for inv i s ib le transact ions and current transfers February 1. Residents were allowed to transfer abroad funds to meet their liabilities to foreign entities incurred before changing their status (in terms of foreign exchange regulations) to that of resident. Cap ital transactions February 1. Residents were allowed to transfer deposits or surety deposits related to tender procedures abroad. February 1. Foreign nationals acting as members of supervisory boards or boards of directors of corporations were permitted to transfer abroad their salaries. February 1. The l im it for investment in securities issued in Poland by foreign entities and allowed for pub l ic trading by the Polish Security and Exchange Commission was raised to ECU 300,000,000. Residents were allowed to purchase pub l ic ly traded securi- ties in OECD countries or in the countries that concluded bilateral agreements on in- vestment protection with Poland. Purchases higher than ECU 50,000 require 3 months' notice to the NBP. March 18. Insurers were permitted to purchase long-term securities traded in OECD countries or in the countries that concluded bilateral agreements on investment protec- tion with Poland rated Aaa-Baa3 by Moody's or AAA-BBB by S&P. In case of short- term securities, the m in imum ratings required are: Prime 1-3 (Moody's) or A1-A3 (S&P). Insurers may invest abroad no more than 5% of the funds covering their insurance fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese escudo. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Cooperative arrangement Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy. The Dire9ao-Geral do Comercio in this m in is try is responsible for administer- ing trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Portugal no t if ied the IMF on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions to residents or nationals of Iraq. In addition, the movements of any funds in Portugal that are controlled by pub- lic authorities or companies of L ibya are prohibited. In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 m i l l ion. The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of Esc 2.5 m i l l ion must be declared to customs. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. 685 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. PORTUGAL E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures For products under EU surveillance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical purposes and are granted automatically in 4 or 5 days. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under spe- cific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the prevention of commercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be required. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in certain third coun- tries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. Generally, licenses are valid for 6 months for customs clearance purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 687 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Restrictions apply in the case of the introduction of foreign securities issued by residents of a non-EU member country and which are not quoted on a recognized market of the issuer's country or of the country in wh ich they are issued. No. No. Investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign investments should be registered w i th in 30 days after the operation has been made. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Provisions spec i f ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Yes. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a requirement of 80% of currency matching of assets owned by insurance com- panies and pension fund s. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Ministry of Finance issues regulations on the e l ig ib le assets of insurance companies and pension funds and of securities investment funds. Changes During 1996 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Currency The currency of Qatar is the Qatar r iya l. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Limited flexibility with respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market The official exchange rate for the Qatar riyal is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1, w i th in margins of ±7.25% around this rate. The Qatar Central Bank (QCB) sets daily rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the QCB's buy ing and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buy ing and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the U.S. dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. No. No. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the for- ward market. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements All settlements w i th Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are all financial transactions with the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The QCB is the exchange control authority, but, at present, there is no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Com- merce. Internat ional security restrictions Financial transactions w i th the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are proh ib i ted. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on external trade n.a. n.a. No. For trading purposes, the buy ing and selling of gold and precious metals require import licenses and are subject to customs duty. Transactions involving Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 688 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR Resident Accounts 689 E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Negative list All imports from Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Open general licenses n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are generally subject to a customs tariff of 4%, which is the m in imum rate ap- plied by members of the GCC. The customs tariff on steel is 20%; on tobacco, 50%; and on alcohol, 100%. Imports from GCC member countries are exempt from tariffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 690 QATAR Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no limitations on these payments, but payments to Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, agriculture, and services jo in t ly with Qatari partners, who must hold at least 51% of the capital. Noncitizens may also establish companies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies, or if there is a need for the experience and technology they provide. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Roman ia is the Romanian leu (p lural lei). The convertible ruble continues to be used as a un it of account for outstanding CMEA balances. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the reference exchange rate) is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania (NBR) inter- venes in the exchange market to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to bu i ld up foreign exchange reserves. Only 4 commercial banks authorized by the NBR could participate in the exchange market during most of 1996. In early 1997, the NBR rein- stated dealer licenses to all commercial banks. Juridical persons other than authorized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. The NBR quotes rates for 23 other currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the ECU. Foreign exchange bureaus conduct transactions only in foreign currency banknotes and traveler's checks and only with natural persons, and are free to set their exchange rates. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Yes. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from countries w i th wh ich Romania has bilateral payments arrange- ments are made only in the currency and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those arrangements. There are arrangements w i th China, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Paki- stan, and some CMEA countries. There are arrangements with Albania, Algeria, Costa Rica, Egypt, Greece, India, and the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran. n.a. There are clearing arrangements w i th Bangladesh and CMEA countries, but they are only used to settle previous balances. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange transactions, and authorizes all capital transfers, inc lud ing those connected with inher i- tances and the l iqu ida t ion of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons. 691 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 ROMANIA The Ministry of Finance (MOF) grants visas for certain payments abroad. Domestic commercial banks are authorized by the NBR to conduct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions. Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The NBR has sole authority to purchase or to sell gold in any manner. It may grant permission to certain ju r id ical persons for such purposes. Controls on external trade There are no actual authorizations for conducting external trade. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Un t il Ap r il 21, 1997, resident natural persons could take out up to Lei 100,000 a person a tr ip in denominations no larger than Lei 5,000; on that date, the limits were changed to Lei 500,000 a person a t r ip and in denominations no larger than Lei 10,000. Foreign nationals may take out the ir foreign currency deposited with authorized com- mercial banks or an amount equivalent to that which they brought into Romania. Resi- dents may take out $5,000 a tr ip. Un t il Apr il 21, 1997, up to Lei 100,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than Lei 5,000 could be brought in; on that date, the l im it was raised to Lei 500,000 a person a t r ip in denominations no larger than Lei 10,000. Foreign currency Na tural persons may br ing into Romania up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a tr ip. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) jur id ical persons who are registered in Romania (i.e., pub l ic institutions, embassies, consulates, other Romanian representatives abroad); (2) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, clubs, leagues, and any other profit or nonprofit ju r id ical persons authorized to carry on activities w i th in the Romanian territory; and (3) foreign branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies. These accounts may be held by (1) Romanian citizens, (2) natural persons w i th foreign citizenship, and (3) stateless persons l iv ing in Romania. Yes. Resident companies that are not exporters of goods and services may receive payment in foreign exchange from other resident companies if authorized by the NBR. Held abroad Resident persons need NBR approval. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Fu ll convertibility is permitted for current account transactions. Convertibility for capi- tal account transactions is l im i ted and requires prior approval of the NBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons ROMANIA Nonresident Accounts 693 These accounts may be held by (1) jur id ical persons that are not registered and author- ized to function within the Romanian territory; (2) foreign embassies, consulates, or other representatives, as well as international organizations or representatives of inter- national organizations functioning within the Romanian territory; and (3) Romanian branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies that carry out their activities and are registered abroad. These accounts may be held by (1) foreign citizens working for embassies, consulates, or other representatives, as well as international organizations; (2) representatives of international organizations operating in Romania; (3) other foreign citizens; and (4) stateless persons. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts Applies to domestic currency obtained from legal activities in Romania. Convertible into foreign currency Convertibility is permitted, provided that the accounts are established under the provi- sions of the Foreign Investment Law (1991). Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. No. Imports and Import Payments A bank guarantee is required before an advance payment is made whenever there is a previous advance payment outstanding (i.e., goods not yet delivered). Documents establishing that goods have been delivered must be presented to commer- cial banks. Imports, in general, are not subject to licensing. The government may restrict imports for reasons of pub l ic health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the WTO. Yes. n.a. n.a. Tariff rates range between 2% and 35%, averaging about 17% for all goods on a trade- weighted basis. Tariffs ranging from zero to 40% are being applied in 1997 to cover at least 70% of all agricultural tariff positions. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Resident ju r id ical persons must maintain foreign exchange export proceeds in accounts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to oper- ate in Romania but are free to use the balances in these accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 694 ROMANIA Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas No. No. n.a. Exports of timber, livestock, sunflower seeds, maize, certain mineral oils, chemical fer- tilizers, and copper alloys are subject to quotas. Exports of wheat, butter, a few hydro- carbon products, certain minerals, blood-based products, logs and wood products, and scrap metals were suspended, in some cases, on a temporary basis in 1996. Export re- strictions on livestock, sunflower seeds, maize, and wheat were eliminated on May 1, 1997. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Quantitative limits All payments and transfers must be documented. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commis- sions, medical costs, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, family maintenance and alimony, interest, and credit card use abroad. Loans and credits from nonresidents abroad must be authorized by the NBR. Nonresidents may remit earnings from gambling and prizes freely. Only foreign investors holding an investor's certificate issued by the Romanian Devel- opment Agency may repatriate profits and dividends. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000 a person a trip. Pensions Prior approval n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 695 Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment All commercial credits are subject to authorization. NBR approval is required for credits of over 1-year maturity, and commercial bank approval for credits of 1 year or less. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Outward direct investment Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR authorization is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents cannot purchase real estate. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Resident banks are allowed to borrow abroad, but only with the authorization of the NBR. NBR authorization is required. Banking companies are permitted to lend locally in foreign currency only for current foreign exchange operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 ROMANIA Changes During 1996 Exports and export proceeds June 6, Exports of wheat, butter, a few hydrocarbon products, certain minerals, blood products, logs and wood products, and scrap metals were suspended. Exports and export proceeds May 1. Export restrictions on livestock, sunflower seeds, maize, and wheat were eliminated. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Russia is the Russian ruble. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) announces an official exchange rate each day along with rates at which it is willing to buy and sell. The official exchange rate is based on interbank market exchange rates and is used for accounting and taxation purposes, and for operations with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). An exchange rate band of Rub 5,000-Rub 5,600 per $1, was applied in the first half of 1996, while a corridor was applied in the second half, starting at Rub 5,000-Rub 5,600 and sliding on a daily basis at a rate of 1.5% per month to Rub 5,500-Rub 6,100 per $1 at end-December 1996. For 1997, the band that began at Rub 5,500-Rub 6,100 is to slide smoothly to Rub 5,750- Rub 6,350 at the end of the year. In addition to an active interbank market, auction mar- kets are also organized in Moscow and other major cities. The U.S. dollar is the inter- vention currency of the CBR in the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) and on other exchanges where the CBR operates. The CBR participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the interbank market outside the auctions. No. No. A futures trading market has developed in Moscow and is regulated as part of the CBR exposure limits, and forward contracts are sold by authorized banks. The CBR provides forward contracts to authorized commercial banks in conjunction with the "S" account scheme for nonresidents to repatriate the proceeds of their invest- ment in government securities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. An agreement is maintained with India. Agreements are maintained w i th Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Repub- lic, Slovenia, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Clearing agreements Yes. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The CBR is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange positions. 697 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 698 RUSSIAN FEDERATION International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Certain restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) apply. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Domestic trade in gold is not permitted. Monetary gold intended to be part of the coun- try's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the government at world prices quoted on the London market and converted at the market exchange rate. Transactions in precious metals (gold and silver bullion) require authorization, and transactions must be made through authorized banks possessing a special license issued by the CBR. Residents and nonresidents traveling to areas where the Russian ruble is sole legal ten- der are allowed to take out a maximum of Rub 500,000 in banknotes. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes a person may take out of the country, provided that a certificate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. On imports Domestic currency n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Balances on these accounts may be used for effecting current foreign exchange transac- tions. The use of foreign exchange proceeds for capital transactions, with the exception of certain specific individual transactions, requires a CBR license. Resident natural persons may maintain bank accounts abroad only dur ing their stay outside Russia for the purpose of education, employment, medical treatment, or visiting. Upon return to Russia, bank accounts abroad must be closed, and balances must be credited to the accounts held in authorized banks operating in the territory of Russia. Resident ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing branches of Russian banks, may not maintain ac- counts abroad without special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open cor- respondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses. Authorized Russian banks are allowed to open correspondent accounts in the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU without restriction, provided that they comply with the regulation on exposure limits. Prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts RUSSIAN FEDERATION 699 Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Nonresidents may maintain 5 types of rub le accounts: (1) "T" accounts, wh ich may be credited with proceeds from current international transactions (including proceeds from sales of goods and services to residents of Russia and interest earnings on the account itself), and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by the ir representative offices in Russia; (2) correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime applicable to T accounts; (3) "I" accounts, which can be used for invest- ment activities ( inc lud ing privatization operations); (4) nonresident accounts for natural persons; and (5) "S" accounts for transactions invo lv ing government securities. The transfer abroad of balances in T accounts and correspondent rub le accounts accumulated after June 1, 1996, is not restricted. The use of balances accumulated up to May 31, 1996, is limited to domestic transactions. I accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities, inc lud ing profit and d iv idend transfers. Balances maintained on I accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident natural and ju r id ical persons may purchase foreign exchange only with rub le balances held in I accounts. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Imports and Import Payments Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit No. No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicine, raw materials for the production of medicine and pesticides, vodka and ethyl alcohol, and industrial waste. Negative list n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Most customs duties range from 5% to 15%; but some tariffs may attain 150%. The fo l low ing imports are exempt from duties: foodstuffs, medicine, medical supplies and equipment, printed materials, ch i ld ren 's articles, accompanied baggage up to $2,000 in value, equ ipment for the oil and gas industries, and ships and boats. Customs duties on imports from CIS countries and from developing countries are half the normal rates. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements The repatriation ratio is 100%. Surrender requ irements Residents must sell 50% of export earnings through authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 RUSSIAN FEDERATION F inanc ing requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes CBR permission is required for foreign exchange transactions associated with deferred payments for exports of goods exceeding 180 days and deferrals granted to residents for making advance payments against deliveries of imported goods exceeding 180 days. Export licensing is limited to a small group of products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, certain food products, w i ld l ife medicine, chemical raw materials for the production of medicine, and minerals). Export licenses are issued in accordance with application procedures established by the Minis- try of Foreign Economic Relations. A limited number of goods determined by the Min- istry of Environment may be exported only under a licensing regime. Yes. Export duties are levied on about 100 product groups. Specific duties are denominated in ECU wh i le ad valorem rates range up to 30%. There are numerous exemptions granted on a case-by-case basis. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Purchase of foreign exchange for all bona fide inv is ib le transactions from authorized banks are allowed with proper documentation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services, are subject to the surren- der requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can purchase from residents securities denominated in foreign exchange or rubles with foreign exchange, as well as securities denominated in foreign exchange with rubles. Residents need prior authorization from the CBR for these transactions. No prior authorization is required to purchase securities denominated in rubles with rubles. Securities denominated in rubles or in foreign exchange may be purchased with funds from type T ruble accounts. Securities denominated in foreign exchange or in rubles with maturity over 1 year may be purchased with funds from type I accounts as well as from ruble correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. The parties shall notify the Federal Securities Market Commission (FKRTsB) of trans- actions invo lv ing the purchase by nonresidents of securities issued by residents. Nonresidents can sell to residents securities denominated in foreign exchange or in ru- bles with foreign exchange, as well as securities denominated in foreign exchange with rubles, provided residents have authorization from the CBR. The sale by nonresidents of securities denominated in rubles w i th rubles requires prior authorization. The parties to transactions shall no t i fy the FKRTsB of concluded transactions for the purchase by residents of securities issued by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 701 Securities issued by nonresidents are permitted to circulate or be initially placed in the securities market after registration of their prospectus with the FKRTsB. The face value of these securities should be denominated in rubles. Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of securities are credited to foreign exchange accounts opened by nonresidents in authorized banks, from which they may be freely transferred abroad. Ruble proceeds from the sale of securities and from securities issues may be credited to type T ruble accounts of nonresidents opened in authorized banks, or to ruble correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. Purchase abroad by residents Prior CBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBR approval is required. Proceeds from the sale are credited to current foreign ex- change accounts of residents. Exports of securities by residents require prior authoriza- tion from the MOF and the State Customs Committee. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents For nongovernment instruments, the same regulations as for capital markets apply. The purchase by nonresidents of government short-term bonds (GKOs) and federal bonds (OFZs) is carried out from type S accounts. Nonresidents may not purchase more than 20% of an issue and may not invest funds for a term of fewer than 2 months. The export of profits is restricted by the size of compensation transactions. The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Transactions with nonresidents in foreign exchange may be carried out only if residents have authorization from the CBR to conclude such transactions. The parties should no- t ify the FKRTsB of concluded transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents The FKRTsB should be notified on purchases by nonresidents of collective investment securities issued by residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Collective investment securities issued by nonresidents require registration of the pro- spectus for the securities w i th the FKRTsB. The face value of these securities must be denominated in rubles. Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of these securities must be credited to foreign exchange accounts and may be freely transferred abroad. Residents need prior authorization from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange in order to purchase these securities abroad. Funds for these purchases may be transferred from current foreign exchange accounts. Residents need prior authorization from the CBR to purchase securities denominated in foreign exchange in Russia. The sale abroad by residents of collective investment securities for foreign exchange of prior authorization from the CBR and the transfer of proceeds from the sale requires prior authorization from the CBR. Proceeds from the sale are credited to current foreign exchange accounts. Collective investment securities issued by a resident may circulate abroad, provided FKRTsB approval is granted. Residents may issue collective investment securities abroad w i th prior authorization from the CBR. The export by residents of collective investment securities requires prior authorization from the CBR and the State Customs Committee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 702 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Purchases in foreign exchange are permitted, provided residents have prior authorization from the CBR. The purchase of derivatives with rubles may be carried out freely from type T ruble accounts. Proceeds from sales of foreign exchange are allowed, provided the residents have prior authorization from the CBR. Foreign exchange proceeds may be freely transferred abroad. Ruble proceeds from sales may be used only within the territory of Russia or may be credited to ruble correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. Purchases are permitted, provided prior authorization from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange is granted. The transfer of funds to purchase derivatives abroad must be car- ried out from foreign exchange accounts. Sales are permitted with prior authorization from the CBR. The transfer of proceeds from the sales requires prior authorization from the CBR. Proceeds must be credited to current foreign exchange accounts. Credits in the form of prepayment for imported commodities with delivery within 180 days may be extended only after prior authorization from the CBR. Resident legal entities may borrow in the form of deferred payment for commodities exported by the resident for a period of more than 180 days only after prior authoriza- tion from the CBR. Credits for a term of more than 180 days may be extended only after prior authorization from the CBR. To residents from nonresidents Residents may borrow for a term of more than 180 days only after prior authorization from the CBR. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Guarantees in foreign exchange are freely extended to residents by authorized banks that have the requisite banking license from the CBR. The performance of obligations under bank guarantees, as well as under surety agreements in which the party extending the surety is a resident that is not an authorized bank, may be carried out only after prior authorization from the CBR. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments must be authorized by the CBR. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Investment through jo int ventures or through outright ownership is not restricted, except in banking, where it is limited to 12% of aggregate authorized capital; exploration of natural resources, where a special license is required; and landownership, where it is prohibited. Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economy. Investments exceeding Rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rules and privileges with regard to property ownership and economic activities as those accorded to residents. Foreign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases in accordance with legislation, and, in such cases, the investor is entitled to com- pensation. Provisions protecting foreign investment, including a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign investment for a 3-year period from regulatory acts that would ad- versely affect their activities and a provision that any restrictions on activities of foreign investor can be introduced only by Russian law or by presidential decree. L iqu ida t ion requires prior authorization from the CBR. The transfer abroad of proceeds is carried out by selling rub le funds credited to type I ruble accounts for foreign ex- change, which may be freely exported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 703 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents CBR approval is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Landownership is prohibited. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require a special license. Authorized banks may open correspondent accounts in banks abroad pursuant to the terms specified in the banking license issued by the CBR (restrictions may be imposed on the number of banks that may open correspondent accounts). The opening of other types of accounts in banks abroad requires the prior authorization of the CBR. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange A CBR license is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits A CBR license is required. D ifferent reserve requirements apply to deposits in local and foreign currency, but no distinction is made between resident and nonresident holders. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The limits are set in absolute amounts and d i f fer according to the banks' capital as fol- lows: (1) for capital up to Rub 1 b i l l ion, the limit is $100,000, while the limit/capital ratio may not be less than 33%; (2) for capital of Rub 1 to Rub 5 billion, the limit is $500,000, wh i le the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 165%; (3) for capital of Rub 5 to Rub 10 b i l l ion, the l im it is $1 m i l l ion, wh i le the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 66%; and (4) for banks w i th capital above Rub 10 b i l l ion, ind iv idual limits are set by the CBR. Provisions specific to institutional investors Investment by institutional investors in securities denominated in foreign exchange re- quires the prior authorization of the CBR. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Resident insurance companies may invest up to 20% abroad. Resident insurance companies must invest at least 80% locally. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Other controls imposed by securities laws The federal law on the securities market states that the prohibition against g iv ing prefer- ence to 1 potential owner over another in the purchase of securities does not apply to nonresidents. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 1. Russia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Exchange arrangements January 1. The band for the official exchange rate was set between Rub 4,550 and Rub 5,150. Nonresident accounts May 17. The daily official exchange rate is to be determined on the basis of rates of major commercial banks in the interbank market. The CBR also announces rates on either side of the official rate at wh ich they are w i l l ing to buy and sell foreign exchange. July L A sliding corridor for the exchange rate was introduced beginning at Rub 5,000 to Rub 5,600 per dollar and sliding on a daily basis at a rate of 1.5% a month to Rub 5,500 to Rub 6,100 per dollar as of end-December. August 15. The CBR introduced a revised scheme to allow nonresidents greater access to the government securities market through S accounts. Under this scheme, nonresi- dents may participate in the market on the same basis as residents. The only proviso is that a nonresident must enter into a forward contract before repatriating balances from these accounts. An exchange rate guarantee is extended by the CBR through the quota- tion of forward exchange rates on a proportion of the amount to be repatriated. The pro- portion covered by the CBR, the guaranteed return, and the m in imum contract maturity period were lowered in several steps in late 1996 to 50%, 12.5%, and 2 months respec- tively at end-1996 from 90%, 19%, and 3 months in August 1996. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined freely in the exchange market in which commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus operate. Banks may apply a variable commission to these operations. Outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 4%o; as from July 17, 1996, the commission ceased to be applied to ex- port financing loans. Export financing loans and loan servicing (repayment of principal and interest) are exempted from this commission. The National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) does not announce official exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the aver- age market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The NBR maintains agreements with the central banks of the CEPGL, Burund i, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMESA are made through the COMESA's clearinghouse. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists with Uganda, but is not operational. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange control is vested in the NBR, which has delegated authority to authorized banks to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. 705 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 RWANDA Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require a declaration. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports A declaration is required for exports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Only foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer may be exported freely. Foreign exchange declared to customs on entry in the country or in amounts not exceed- ing the equivalent of $10,000 may be reexported. Domestic currency Declaration is required for import of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice stating the f.o.b. value. Imports with f.o.b. value of $10,000 or more and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an international agency with regard to the quality, quantity, price, and customs tariff of the goods before being shipped to Rwanda, unless otherwise pro- vided by the NBR. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list RWANDA 707 All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Minis- try of Health. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs In addition to customs duties, a f i le processing charge equal to 1% of f.o.b. va lue is levied on imports at the time of declaration to cover the costs of the preshipment in- spection agency. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 7 days from the date of payment. Surrender requirements On December 26, 1996, the ratio of earnings from coffee and tea exports that must be sold to commercial banks at a freely negotiated exchange rate was reduced to 50% from 90%. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports, except trade samples and personal and household effects of travelers, are subject to prior declaration to the authorized banks. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. A tax on coffee exports is levied on the tonnage ranging from $101/ton to $l,650/ton. This taxation procedure varies depending on the harvest. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, con- sulting and legal fees, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, and the use of credit cards abroad. Payments are permitted on loans for which the NBR was given prior notification of the loan contract and for which the funds were initially received by a local commercial bank. Approval by authorized banks is required. Approval is subject to appropriate aud i t ing of the accounts and a decision by the board of directors of the company. Official travel requires a travel authorization by the government or by an authorized agency. Daily allowances are granted for such travel. Businessmen may purchase up to $10,000 in payment instruments for each trip, but the number of business trips is not restricted. A max imum allowance of $4,000 a tr ip is granted for tourism. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 708 RWANDA Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Residents may purchase up to $20,000 without supporting documents, unless provided by the NBR; prior authorization by the NBR is required for transfers of $20,000 or more. There is a l im it of $25,000 a year, on presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contributions, may be transferred abroad. The net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, may also be transferred abroad after payment of taxes. A fee of 0.4% is levied on transfers abroad. Payment of the em- ployee's share of social security contributions and taxes is required. Prior approval Prior authorization from the NBR is required for amounts exceeding $20,000 a year. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits The annual l im it for expenses for a resident's family members l iv ing abroad is $1,000. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds may be sold in the domestic foreign exchange market or may be held in for- eign exchange accounts with banks located in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Capital Transactions All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the NBR. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 709 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. By residents to nonresidents Credits are subject to NBR approval, To residents from nonresidents n.a. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits are subject to NBR approval, To residents from nonresidents n.a. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to NBR approval, To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments are subject to NBR approval. Inward direct investment n.a. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Repatriation of investments by nonresidents must be registered by authorized banks. Yes. n.a. n.a. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed under certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Lending is allowed under certain conditions. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 710 RWANDA Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Credit controls The NBR sets the refinancing rate from time to time. Banks freely set their borrowing rates. A 25% ceiling is applied to banks' own funds. Beyond this level, authorization from the NBR is required within the l im it of 20% of banks' own funds. Foreign exchange amounts in excess of these limits must be sold on the market. Investment regulations Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits A prudential limit of 20% of banks' own funds is applied. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements Exports and export proceeds July 17. Export financing loans were exempted from the 0.4%o commission applied to outward and inward transfers. December 26. The surrender requirement for coffee and tea export proceeds was re- duced to 50% from 90%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. No. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries. No. No. No. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts U.S. dollar accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the MOF is required to operate other foreign currency accounts. Permission to open these accounts is normally confined to major exporters. These ac- counts may be credited only w i th foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be freely debited. A m in imum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Held abroad n.a. 711 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 712 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Permission to open foreign currency accounts is normally confined to foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. The same regulations for credits and debits as for resident accounts held domestically apply. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. Advance payments for imports in currencies other than U.S. dollars require prior ap- proval from the MOF. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the MOF. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Ind iv idual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the CARICOM. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. n.a. Most goods are imported under open general licenses. n.a. St. Kitts and Nevis applies the common external tariff of CARICOM, which ranges up to 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. However, the regulations governing export licenses are not formally adhered to. n.a. Export duties are levied on a few products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 713 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except when the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the MOF; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. As of January 26, 1996, individuals are permitted to purchase up to ECS 100,000 without exchange control approval. Profits and dividends may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of registration by the Com- missioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Specific information on the application of quantitative limits, indicative limits, and bona fide tests is not available. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of ECS 100,000 a year without authorization from the MOF. Indicative limits/bona fide test Travel allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the MOF. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents For purchases of equity shares, an Aliens Land Holding license is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding ECS 100,000. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Same regulations apply as for sale or issue by nonresidents of capital market securities. The seller of the instruments has to be licensed under the Banking Act, and transfers abroad in excess of ECS 100,000 require approval from the MOF. Presently, there is no market in derivatives and other instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% Aliens Loan Levy is required for these transactions. To residents from nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$100,000. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$100,000. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$ 100,000. Inward direct investment Investments in equity require an Aliens Land Holding license. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The remittance of proceeds of the liquidation of direct investments is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. Transfer of proceeds exceed- ing ECS 100,000 requires MOF approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchasing real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% Aliens Loan Levy are required. MOF approval is required, which is granted only in the case of projects generating for- eign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign currencies requires MOF approval. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No regulations exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers January 26. Ind iv idua ls were allowed to purchase up to ECS 100,000 to effect any for- eign exchange transaction. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Luc ia is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM, except for Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in Eastern Carib- bean dollars. When justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. Payment arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating (MFSN) applies exchange control to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Since March 1, 1996, approval is no longer required. Permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent payments abroad. Prior approval is required. 715 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 716 ST. LUCIA Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. External accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars may be opened for nonresident indi- v idua ls and companies with the approval of the MFSN. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the MFP, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required is required for transactions ex- ceeding ECS 100,000. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. n.a. Advance payments require prior approval from the MFSN, for amounts exceeding EC$100,000. Advance import deposits n.a. Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain agricultural and manufactured products requ ire ind iv idual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Licenses with quotas n.a. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs St. Lucia applies the Common External Tariff (CET) of up to 35% (except for certain agricultural goods). A customs service charge of 2% of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports except for fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.2%. Exempt from import duties are live animals, m i lk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and manufacturing machinery. Goods produced in CARICOM countries may enter duty free. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State imp o rt monopo ly The importation of selected consumer items (e.g., rice, f lou r, and sugar) in bu lk form is a state monopoly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 717 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Requirements were abolished on March 1, 1996. Surrender requirements Requirements were abolished on March 1, 1996. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licensing is required for certain primary products, n.a. n.a. A duty of 2.5% is levied on the f.o.b. value of banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is applied to reexports of petroleum. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Approval is required for transactions exceeding ECS 100,000. There are no controls on payments for travel and for subscriptions and membership fees. Freight/insurance Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. With the approval of the MFSN, profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of In land Revenue that local tax l iab i l i t ies have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be h igh, the MFSN reserves the r ight to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 ST. LUCIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Requirements on proceeds of up to EC$ 100,000 were abolished on March 1, 1996. Surrender requirements No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions Outward transfers exceeding EC$ 100,000 require exchange control approval. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. These transactions require approval from the MFSN (a person who has not resided in St. Lucia for 3 consecutive years is declared a nonresident). n.a. n.a. n.a. These credits require approval of the MFSN. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other financial intermediary) to the MFSN on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 719 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a h igher rate than residents. Sale locally by nonresidents Amounts exceeding ECS 100,000 require approval for repatriation of estate proceeds. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. There are controls on loans exceeding ECS 100,000. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts March I. Amounts exceeding ECS 100,000 for current and capital transactions require MFSN approval. Resident accounts March 1. Foreign currency accounts may be maintained w i thout prior approval from the MFSN. Exports and export proceeds March 1. Repatriation and surrender requirements were abolished. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers March 1. Payments in excess of EC$100,000 require MFSN approval. March 1. Repatriation and surrender requirements were abolished. Capital transactions March 1. Transfers abroad in excess of ECS 100,000 requ ire MFSN approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass i f ica t ion Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM can be made in any currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only, trade Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for industrial purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical persons n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 720 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 721 Natural persons n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF and credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the MOF, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authoriza- tion from the MOF. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the ac- counts to the MOF. External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Credits and debits to these accounts are subject to the same regulations as for foreign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency n.a. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements No. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports over ECS 100,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, of the license. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. n.a. Imports of goods that compete w i th locally made products are prohibited in some cases. n.a. n.a. n.a. Effective January 1997, the import tariff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, im- ports are subject to a consumption tax, ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the tar iff- inc lus ive value of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the consumption tax. A customs service charge of 2.5% is imposed on the c.i.f. va lue of all imported goods with certain exceptions. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 722 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. n.a. n.a. A 2% export duty is levied on bananas. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports (i.e., freight and insurance, unload- ing and storage, administrative expenses, commissions), for medical costs, expenses for study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, interest payments, and remittances of profits and dividends are not restricted. Other payments exceeding ECS 100,000 must be approved by the MOF; approval is routinely granted. A 5% tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not they are purchased in the country. The limits are the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, and EC$6,000 a year for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the MOF. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Yes. Yes. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. n.a. n.a. Residents are normally not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 723 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required, To residents from nonresidents n.a. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance the ir domestic operations re- quires the approval of the MOF. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 724 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Imports and import payments January I. The maximum import tariff was reduced to 30% from 35%. Changes During 1996 Payments for in v i s ib le transactions and current transfers January 1. The custom service charge was increased to 2.5% from 2%. March 31. Advance payment for imports requires prior approval from the MOF only if the amount exceeds EC$ 100,000. March 31. Current account transactions were liberalized for amounts below ECS 100,000. Prior approval, quantitative limits, and indicative limits/bona fide tests were eliminated for (1) medical costs, (2) expenses for study abroad, (3) subscriptions and membership fees, and (4) consulting/legal fees that do not exceed EC$ 100,000. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. The import tariff rate range was narrowed to zero to 25% from zero to 35%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the Italian lira. The monetary agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to Italian coinage; these coins w i ll be legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued, but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). Unitary. Pegged. No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire on for- eign accounts. No. The Central Bank of San Marino (CBSM) may grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions; currently, Sammarinese banks may maintain ac- counts only with financial institutions in Italy. As a result, foreign exchange transactions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buy ing foreign exchange at rates similar to those quoted in Italy and to conducting third-country transactions through Italian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlement effected through authorized Italian intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Administration). Di- rect settlements (with residents drawing on their own external accounts) authorized un- der Italian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990 have not yet been utilized. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations. 725 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 SAN MARINO Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Juridical and natural residents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in prac- tice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade trans- actions. Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. Customs duties on imports from outside the EU are collected by EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian value-added tax, but the average effective rate is about 4% lower. Sale taxes levied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports to Italy are not regulated, while exports to third countries are governed by rele- vant Italian regulations. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require licenses, while other exports do not require authorization. n.a. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 727 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these paymen ts No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. No. n.a. Investments require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment w i th national firms. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require approval from the Council of Twelve. Approval is granted on a case- by-case basis. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31', 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the dobra. There are 4 exchange rates: the official, the exchange bureau, the commercial market, and the parallel market rates. Occasional spreads of more than 2% result between these rates. The indicative exchange rate of the dobra is determined daily as a weighted average of the exchange rates of the exchange bureaus, commercial banks, and the parallel market of the previous day. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the cur- rencies concerned. The taxation system d iffers for import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrange- ments are as follows: when a letter of credit (LC) is opened, a quarterly rate equivalent to 0.5% (m in imum of $25 and maximum of $500) of the import value is charged and is payable with an additional commission of 0.5% to the Central Bank of Siio Tome" and Principe (CB). A stamp of duty of 0.25% is also payable, as well as a postage levy of $2. On foreign checks for collection, commercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a m in imum of $25 and a maximum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened and an additional fee of 0.125% when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The CB may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions are to be made. No. All foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the CB, which applies the exchange controls f lex ib ly. All exchange payments must be made through the CB, with the ex- ception of 50% of earnings retained by producer-exporters for import payments. Import and export licenses are freely granted by the Directorate of External Commerce for sta- tistical purposes. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. 728 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 729 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade The export and import of gold require CB authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons The CB establishes the max imum amount that may be exported. Resident Accounts Domestic accounts in foreign currency, other than those of credit institutions, may be freely opened only by export enterprises that are also producers, but the utilization of such accounts for making transfers abroad needs authorization on a case-by-case basis from the CB. Natural persons Ind iv idua ls are not allowed to hold foreign currency deposits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Producers of exported goods may retain 50% of their export proceeds in accounts with banks, including those abroad (if they are correspondent banks of the CB). The utiliza- tion of such amounts of currency are confined to the importation of products and equipment necessary for productive activities. Without the authorization of the CB, residents may not make foreign currency deposits or open or utilize bank accounts outside the country. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits These accounts may be freely opened and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand accounts or have a term of up to 1 year. Imports and Import Payments n.a. No. n.a. Prepayment for imports is permitted on ly through the opening of LCs or through ad- vance transfer when agreed upon by the CB. When importers open LCs, the International Bank requires them to lodge a non-interest- bearing deposit in domestic currency of up to 100% of the value of the LCs, depending on the creditworthiness of the operator. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 730 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures n.a. Yes. Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All individuals and productive entities are permitted to engage in import activity. Medicines may be imported by the public pharmaceutical enterprise and the private pharmaceutical sector. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. State import monopo ly Fuels and lubricants are imported by the public fuel enterprise. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated. However, producer-exporters may retain 50% of export proceeds in foreign exchange in bank accounts, including those abroad with correspondent banks of the CB, to meet their import requirements. Exporters may retain 50% of export proceeds and must surrender the other 50% to the CB. All exports require an export license specifying the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. n.a. n.a. Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 0.125% is charged on the collection of export proceeds, with a mini- mum of $25 and a maximum of $300 when the LC is opened, and an additional com- mission of 0.125% when funds are received. A postage levy of $7.50 is also charged. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports, i.e., freight and insurance, unload- ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions and interest payments, as well as subscriptions and membership fees, and consulting and legal fees are not re- stricted. Payments for other invisibles are approved within limits established by the CB. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 0.5%. In addition, com- mercial banks charge a postage levy of $2 for clients (and $4 for others) on all transactions. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established before independence have been suspended. Prior approval n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 731 Quantitative limits Repatriation of profits of up to 15% a year of the investment value is permitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for purposes of tourism are limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers in excess of l im i ts set by the CB for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate are approved in bona fide cases. Study abroad costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. At the beginning of the school year, a student is granted permission to transfer a variable amount to pay for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional transfers may be granted if approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance w i th the terms of their contracts. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Inward direct investment Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other m in ing industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) n.a. n.a. Lending locally in foreign exchange n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.a. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The requirements are 30% on foreign exchange deposits (the requirement was reduced from 50% on May 1, 1996), and 15% on dobra deposits. Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1996 Exports and export proceeds May L The surrender requirement was reduced to 50% from 70%. Capital transactions April 4. The reserve requirement on foreign exchange deposits was reduced to 30% from 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Saudia Arabia is the Saudi Arabian riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Limited flexibility with respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, to which a close relationship is maintained. The Saudi Arabian riyal rate against the U.S. dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). The SAMA's middle rate, which has been stable since June 1986 at SRls 3.745 per $1, serves—together with the SAMA's selling and buying rates—as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125% above and below the SAMA's buying and selling rates. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with (and the use of the currency of) Israel are prohibited. Payment arrangements No. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions There have been restrictions on transactions with Iraq since September 1990. In compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), effective September 15, 1992. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may import and export gold in any form, except manufactured gold and jew- elry, which are subject to a 12% customs duty. Gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. 733 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 734 SAUDI ARABIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons may open these accounts with permission of the SAMA. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging from zero to 12%. For a few goods, the rate is 20% and for tobacco products, 50%. Imports from members of the GCC are exempt from duties, provided that at least 40% of value added is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51% of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC members. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 735 Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is restricted to Saudi Arabian nationals, Saudi Arabian corporations and institutions, and citizens of the GCC. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is allowed via special purpose vehicles (country fund), authorized by the SAMA; the fund w i ll be established on Ju ly 26, 1997 and will be managed by Saudi American banks. There are no restrictions on portfolio investment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the Minister of Commerce to sell or issue securi- ties w i th in the K ingdom. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of the proceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell non- resident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on der ivat ives and other ins trumen ts Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required for Saudi Arabian riyal-denominated loans made through Saudi Arabian banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 736 SAUDI ARABIA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required, except for Saudi Arabian banks. To residents from nonresidents Financial institutions that give guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same privileges as domestic capital. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25% Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for 10 years after production has begun. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Arabian corpora- tions, Saudi Arabian institutions, and citizens of the GCC. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The SAMA's approval is required by Saudi Arabian banks before acquiring shares in a company established outside the Kingdom. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Reserve requirements The SAMA requires local banks to obtain its approval before inviting foreign banks to participate in Saudi Arabian riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or outside Saudi Arabia. Prior approval from the SAMA is also required for Saudi Arabian banks to participate in riyal-standard transactions arranged abroad. For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only domestic currency deposits are subject to the SAMA's reserve requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc at the rate of CFAF 100 per F 0.01. Ex- change rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of French francs and an exchange commission of 0.125 to l%o on purchases and sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is available to residents only for imports of a specified category of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning (MEFP). Forward cover may be provided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial con- tract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange settlement stipu- lated in the commercial contract and must not exceed 1 month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended 1 time for up to 3 months. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. n.a. Yes. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauri- tania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Exchange control is administered by the MEFP, wh ich has delegated a part of the ap- proval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The Di- rectorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs officers monitor outflows of foreign exchange and confirm imports and exports of goods effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO ex- ercises exchange controls ex post. 737 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 738 SENEGAL International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments to Iraq are prohibited. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) require prior authoriza- tion from the MEFP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Travelers may export CFA franc banknotes. However, the suspension of BCEAO repur- chases of exported banknotes continues. In addition, shipments of BCEAO notes be- tween authorized intermediaries and their correspondent banks outside the WAEMU are strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 by nonresidents requires documentation demonstrating either the impor- tation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents and residents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in 8 days. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening of these accounts is subject to prior approval by the MEFP. The practice is generally not allowed because it is not covered by existing legislation. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. The holding of accounts with banks abroad is not expressly prohibited. However, trans- fers for the accumulation of asset holdings abroad (i.e., outside the franc zone) by a resident must be approved by the MEFP. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The ho ld ing of accounts with banks located abroad must have prior approval from the MEFP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 739 Domestic currency accounts These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French franc notes, or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEFP. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign accounts in francs may be freely debited for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection No. No. Imports and Import Payments Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange un t il the contractual date of the payments. Exchange authorization and invoices are required. All import transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with authorized banks. An inspection is required for quality and price for goods exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion f.o.b. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Quantitative restrictions may be applied on products for pub l ic health and security reasons. Positive list Negative list Used cars and secondhand clothing may be freely imported. The marketing of these articles requires mechanical inspection or a health clearance, respectively. Narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Import duties range between 5% and 45% ( inc lud ing a service fee of 5%). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports, including those to members of WAEMU and Operations Ac- count countries, must normally be collected w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than 1 month after the due date. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Yes. No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses are required, except for unworked gold. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 740 SENEGAL Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account coun- tries may be freely made. All other payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide test. Payments for medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, and the use of credit cards abroad, as well as interest payments and remittances of profits and d iv idends are subject to prior approval. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 200,000 a day for up to 1 month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 6 m i l l ion (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances). Allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MEFP. Total net wages may be transferred upon presentation of pay slips, provided the transfer is made w i th in 3 months fo l low ing the pay period. Credit cards issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the MEFP may be used up to the ceilings for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ irements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les with France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in 1 month of due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Senegal and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the MEFP, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal requ ire prior authorization from the MEFP; 75% of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior authorization is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment SENEGAL 741 n.a. Yes. Yes. Commercial credits may be freely granted in connection with merchandise exports if the due date of the payment is w i th in 120 days of the shipment of the merchandise. Com- mercial credits in connection with the provision of services may be freely granted by residents; no limit is set for the payment due date. Nonresidents may freely grant commercial credits to resident institutions. Repayments of commercial credits are generally authorized, subject to the submission of supporting documents. These credits require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service these facilities gives rise to the establishment of an "exchange authorization," subject to the approval of the MEFP and the submission of supporting documents. There are no restrictions on the granting of these loans, provided the loan amount is under CFAF 70 million. The funds required for servicing these facilities must be trans- ferred abroad by an authorized intermediary bank. The granting of guarantees and sureties is subject to prior approval by the MEFP. Trans- fer abroad of the funds required to service these facilities requ ires issuance of an "exchange permit" bearing the signature of the MEFP to accompany the supporting documents. These facilities may be freely granted for amounts under CFAF 70 m i l l ion. Transfer abroad of the funds required to service these facilities must be made by an authorized intermediary bank. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct invest- ment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are con- sidered to be direct investments and therefore require a pr ior declaration to the MEFP. All investments, inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal, require prior authorization from the MEFP; 75% of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Direct investments constitute investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, unless it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign direct investments in Senegal, inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries of fore ign companies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP before they are made. The l iqu ida t ion of direct and other investments, whether Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days of each operation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 742 SENEGAL Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require prior authorization of the MEFP. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Sales must be declared to the MEFP. Operations may be settled only after approval of the MEFP. Following settlement, the liquidation or sale must be reported to the MEFP and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires a prior declaration to the MEFP when the contract exceeds CFAF 70 m i l l ion. Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEFP, except in the cases of (1) loans constituting a direct investment that are subject to prior declaration; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the MEFP) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those men- tioned above when the total outstanding amount of these loans, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the MEFP if the loan itself was subject to such approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Prior MEFP authorization is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Prior MEFP authorization is required. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Interest rates are free, except for time deposits of CFAF 5 million or higher held for 1 year or more, and savings accounts, provided the usury law is observed. Any overdraft or any advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. These claims are included in the international position of banks and fi- nancial institutions subject to special supervision. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 6. Senegal accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 743 Imports and import payments July 9. Trade in secondhand clothing and used cars was liberalized. Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers August 18. Limits for travel allowances were increased. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments May 2. The ceiling for preshipment inspection of merchandise was raised to CFAF 3 m i l l ion, except for certain cases mandated specifically by the Customs Administration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of JanuarySl, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Various commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Since May 13, 1996, the Seychelles rupee has been pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners: the U.S. dollar (22.4), the pound sterling (19.6), the French franc (16.1), the South African rand (11.5), the Singa- pore dollar (10.0), the deutsche mark (8.8), the Italian lira (7.8), and the Japanese yen (3.8). Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee, as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS) circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. The CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and French francs. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective curren- cies. Other authorized dealers include casinos, guesthouses, hotels, restaurants, self- catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, shipping agents, and ship chan- dlers. These dealers are restricted to buy ing only in the course of their licensed activity. They must sell all their foreign currency proceeds to the 5 commercial banks. All other transactions in foreign exchange are prohibited. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The exchange control authorities are the CBS and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF partially controls foreign trade and domestic marketing through a mechanism of import and price controls. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Private Yes. 744 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 745 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, except for dealings in trade gold bu l l ion, which are restricted to authorized dealers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Travelers may take out up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency. Foreign currency Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Resident Accounts n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. n.a. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers other than ind iv idua ls are required to obtain import licenses from the Sey- chelles Licensing Authority, in accordance with objective criteria. In addition, for each shipment of commodities, an importer must apply to the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance for a permit, the granting of which is discretionary. Permits are normally not granted for cars older than 3 years and some nonessential commodities. Effective January 1, 1996, an import quota system applicable to most imports was intro- duced. The quota allocation system is based on 75% of importers' 1995 imports. Im- ports related to the tourist industry are granted a higher percentage of their 1995 imports, and new importers are allocated SR 50,000. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports are subject to taxes of up to 600%, with most goods subject to rates ranging between 5% and 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopo ly The Seychelles Marketing Board has the monopoly on imports of all foodstuffs. Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 746 SEYCHELLES Surrender requirements Preshipment inspection All export proceeds must be converted through domestic commercial banks, who are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. During 1996, banks allocated 64.8% of their foreign exchange inflows to the Foreign Exchange Payments Scheme. Under the 7 categories of payments to which certain percentages of foreign exchange inflows are allocated, customers deposit the Seychelles rupee equivalent of their foreign exchange requirements in a special account. The system operates on a first-come, first-served basis for each category at banks. In addition, commercial banks surrendered 19% of their foreign exchange inflows to the government for purchases of essential imports by the Seychelles Marketing Board, loan repayments, and requirements of a utility company. The remaining 16.2% of inflows was used at the discretion of the banks. With a view to the eventual dismantling of the pipeline, surrender requirements were modified on January 1, 1997, to 20% to the pipeline; 30% to finance essential govern- ment imports; and the remaining 50% to be used at the discretion of banks. Residents may export to any country, but a permit is required for each shipment of commodities. These permits are granted on a routine basis by the Trade and Commerce Division of the MOF. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. Restrictions on remittances of profits and divi- dends, and consulting and legal fees were lifted on January 1, 1997. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents must surrender the proceeds to a commercial bank w i th in 21 days of the transaction. Receipts, with the exception of dividend remittances and transfers of management fees, may be disposed of freely. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign investment is freely permitted, provided that such investment does not involve ownership of land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 747 Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Restrictions on the transfers of proceeds were lifted on January 1, 1997. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements May 13. The Seychelles rupee ceased to be pegged to the SDR and was pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners. Imports and import payments January 1. An import quota system for most importers was introduced. Capital transactions March 11. Restrictions on commercial credits by residents to nonresidents were abolished. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements January 1. A new Foreign Exchange Regulations Act became effective. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Surrender requirements were mod if ied. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January I. Restrictions on remittances for profits and dividends and management fees were removed. Capital transactions January 1. Restrictions on remittances of proceeds from sale of assets were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Currency The currency of Sierra Leone is the leone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independent floating Exchange rates are freely determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), the central bank, freely. The BSL determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, includ- ing for customs valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted average rate of commercial bank and foreign exchange bureau transactions in the previous week. For- eign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transactions and are not allowed to sell trav- eler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external ac- count in the currency of the importing country or in any specified convertible currency. Yes. n.a. The WAEMU prov ides for settlements with the BSL by West African states (for Benin, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) formulates exchange control policy in consultation with the BSL, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the BSL w i th the assistance of the commercial banks. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears O f f ic ial Pr iva te No. Yes. n.a. n.a. 748 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 749 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, or sell certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not Allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid m iner's or dealer's license. Exports of gold require a license. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire an ind iv idual import license. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Employees on official business may take out up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Travelers can take out up to $5,000 w i thout restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 with supporting documents. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet their operational requirements. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts denominated in any con- vertible currency. These accounts, for which m in imum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permitted for current international transactions w i thout prior approval from the BSL, subject to f u l f i l l i ng the regulation governing the transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The same regulations as for resident accounts apply. All documented inward remittances can also be externalized w i thout reference to the BSL. Accounts in leones held on behalf of d ip loma t ic missions, UN agencies, and the ir ac- credited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits with external accounts are netted by the BSL, and balances standing to the credit of the account can be external- ized w i thout reference to the BSL. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 750 SIERRA LEONE Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone, supported by the following documents: completed exchange control form A l, original proforma invoice, final invoice, original bill of lading/airway b i l l, tax clearance certificate, and preshipment inspection certificate. Domiciliation requirements n.a. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically ex- empted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources are permitted without letters of credit established with a local commercial bank. Negative list All goods, except military goods, may be imported freely without a license. Import taxes and/or tariffs A sales tax of 20% of the landed value is levied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated businesses are subject to a 2% tax as advance payment of income taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters must repatriate export proceeds within 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of dia- monds that were prefmanced from external sources are not subject to the repatriation requirement. Surrender requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters of commercial goods are required to complete export forms that must be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspec- tion and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1% before clearing their goods through customs. Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for 1 year or 6 months, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25% silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the leone equivalent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic inter- est; and works of art. Yes. Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an administrative fee of 1% and an in- come tax of 1.5% based on the value in U.S. dollars of diamonds exported. Licensed exporters of gold must pay a 2.5% royalty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 751 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the com- mercial banks. There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, interest, commissions, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, fam i ly maintenance and alimony, or on remittances of profits and d iv idends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for travel allowances in excess of the l im it must be supported by travel documents such as a ticket or passport. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Commercial banks can make remittances in favor of nonresident employees of interna- tional ins t i tu t ions, agencies, or foreign nongovernmental organizations on ly up to the remuneration package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such pay- ment are supported by a valid work permit, a remuneration package agreement, and a tax clearance certificate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital payments to nonresidents are subject to exchange control. BSL approval is required before a security registered in or outside of Sierra Leone may be transferred to (or purchased by) a nonresident. These transactions are not permitted. Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. All funds accruing on such investment, as well as the capital upon termination of the investment, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission; for permission to be given, the company is usually required to ob- tain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded w i th domestic resources are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 SIERRA LEONE Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require BSL approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases with funds brought from abroad are allowed. BSL certification is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are not available in Sierra Leone. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, in Sierra Leone to nonresident entities. Permission of the BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In ad- dition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the giving or renewal of any guarantee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be 100% covered by the nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments are not allowed. Inward direct investment Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Income tax and customs duty concessions are granted to foreign and domestic companies under- taking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Permission from the BSL is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currency. Borrowing abroad n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 753 Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not engaged in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in this respect. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are not engaged in this lending. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls n.a. n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors There are no regulations governing operations of foreign investors. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore dollar. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable at par without charge in Singapore and Brunei. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies. No. No. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities No. Yes. Yes. n.a. The MAS retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import and export licensing requirements for a very small number of products. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) n.a. In accordance with UN sanctions Financial assets owned by residents of Iraq and Libya are blocked. Singapore observes the import and export proh ib i t ions covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Other Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" basis for delivery of 995 fine gold. Kilobars of 999.9 fineness are most commonly traded, while 10-tola bars are also becoming popular. Spot gold prices for settlement in Singapore are derived by 754 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 755 adjusting the loco-London price w i th the location prem ium, wh ich takes into account the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold fu tures contract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Controls on exports and impor ts of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for imports of rice. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. n.a. Very few imports are du t iab le. Singapore is a party to the Common Effective Preferen- tial Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the AFTA. Customs duties are levied on imports of li- quor, tobacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 SINGAPORE Surrender requirements F inanc ing requ irements Documentat ion requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export licenses are requ ired for substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer, t imber, and rubbe r. Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quantitative restrictions and other non ta r i ff barriers in importing countries. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requ irements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket in s trumen ts Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l i q u i d a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Prov is ions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that have been zoned or approved for indus tr ial or commercial use requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential un i ts in bu i ld ings of 6 or more stories and in approved condom in ium developments. Foreigners who make an economic con tr ibu t ion to Singapore w i ll be given favorable consideration to purchase other resi- dential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accommo- date their senior personnel. Banks, merchant banks, and finance and insurance companies must consult the MAS if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 m i l l ion to nonresidents. Non-Singapore citizens (excluding permanent residents of Singapore) and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 757 non-Singapore companies are not to be granted Singapore dollar loans for the purchase of residential properties in Singapore. n.a. n.a. Foreign currency deposits accepted under the Asian currency units of banks are not subject to reserve requirements. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Foreign currency deposits accepted under the Asian currency units of banks are not subject to the liquid asset requirement. Credit controls Banks, merchant banks, and finance companies may only grant unsecured credit facili- ties to individuals with a m in imum income of S$30,000 a year. The quantum of such credit facilities may not exceed twice the monthly income of the borrower. For finance companies, the quantum of such credit facilities may not exceed the lesser of twice the monthly income of the borrower or S$5,000. Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. Changes During 1996 Capital transactions September 30. Nonresident firms were permitted to list on the stock market and to issue bonds in domestic currency, provided that 35% of their revenue is locally generated and their regional headquarters and senior management are based in Singapore. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak koruna. 100 haliere = 1 koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The Slovak koruna is pegged to a basket comprising the deutsche mark (weight of 60%) and the U.S. dollar (weight of 40%), within margins of ±7%, and the official exchange rate is determined in f ix ing sessions conducted daily by the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The NBS is responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations in coordination with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The NBS has authority over the ac- tivities of all registered enterprises and entrepreneurs. The MOF exercises jurisdiction in credits granted or accepted by the Slovak Republic as well as in exchange control mat- ters relating to other ministries and central bodies of the state administration, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, juridical persons estab- lished by separate law who are connected through financial ties to the state budget, and local communities and their budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF maintains foreign exchange records and documents pertaining to interstate negotiations on property claims, and implements the results of these negotiations w i th in the country. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in gold is conducted exclusively by banks to the extent stipulated in the banking license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The prohibition on exports and imports of banknotes exceeding Sk 100,000 was elimi- nated on December 1, 1996; currently, a declaration is required if the amount exceeds a certain volume. 758 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 759 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Resident ind iv idua ls, inc lud ing unregistered entrepreneurs, may open foreign exchange accounts without specific permission and w i thout revealing the source of their funds. The balances may be used without restrictions. Juridical persons need the approval of the NBS or the MOF to open these accounts. These accounts are permitted. A resident may open an account abroad in foreign or Slo- vak currency, or enter into a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only after obtaining a foreign ex- change permit from the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign exchange permit is not requ ired: (1) when the resident has a banking or foreign exchange license; (2) in con- nection with a private ind iv idu a l 's stay abroad; (3) to cover the documented operating costs of the resident's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of de- positing the resident's foreign exchange instruments if foreign legislation forbids the transfer of such funds to the country; or (5) for the payment of fees, taxes, and other documented expenses related to the administration and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Foreign exchange may be deposited freely into these accounts, and payments may be made freely, locally or abroad. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A system of variable levies accompanies import licensing. Import licenses are required for some agricultural goods and a few strategic items, such as crude oil, natural gas, firearms and munitions, dual-use goods, and narcotics. An automatic licensing system applies to imports of several agricultural and industrial products and raw materials. From January 1, 1997, a nonautomatic licensing system was applied to coal. All imports, except those from the Czech Repub l ic and from countries with whom the Slovak Repub l ic has a customs un ion, are subject to an ad valorem tariff. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP: 42 least- developed countries, and 100 deve lop ing countries are granted 50% and 100% reduc- tions from applicable duties, respectively. An import surcharge of 7.5% is imposed on certain goods, with the exception of inputs for the production of consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Imported goods are taxed with a VAT, and there are excise duties on mineral oils, spir- its, wine, beer, and tobacco. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements In general, a 100% repatriation requirement applies, but in the case of resident indi- v idua ls the requirement applies to sums exceeding the equivalent of Sk 5,000. Resident jur id ical persons are required to sell to a bank any foreign exchange receipts exceeding Sk 100,000. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export licenses are required for narcotics, poisons, firearms and ammunition, and all dual-use goods and technologies. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants) to facilitate voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and some agricultural products), or to preserve natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materials) for the domestic market. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments except for those set on allowances for travel expenses. Residents may use balances in foreign currency accounts and in domestic currency accounts for purposes of tourism without limit; additional purchases of cash in foreign currency for tourist travel abroad are subject to a $3,000 annual indicative limit. Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to different allowances, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Residents must repatriate all proceeds without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other ex- penses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, but no later than 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. Resident ju r id ical persons must sell to a bank any foreign exchange they obtain exceed- ing Sk 100,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 761 Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require a permit from the MOF and the NBS. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require a foreign exchange permit. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the MOF. On money market instruments The NBS regulates these transactions. Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A permit from the MOF is required. Purchase abroad by residents A resident who is an authorized foreign exchange dealer and is not a bank or a securities trader may enter into contracts for dealing in financial derivatives solely on the basis of a foreign exchange permit. A foreign exchange permit is not required when the contract or business is effected with an authorized foreign exchange dealer within the range al- lowed by the banking or foreign exchange license. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Registered enterprises may freely obtain credits. Financial credits Credits require a special permit from the NBS. By residents to nonresidents Financial credits with a maturity of 5 years or more provided by Slovak residents to residents of OECD countries were liberalized. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities These transactions require a foreign exchange permit. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment NBS approval is required except when the investment is made in an OECD country; normally, approval is granted if the investment is considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no l im it on equity participation by nonresidents. Foreign exchange equity par- ticipation can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a local bank. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit is required, except for OECD countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents, with the exception of Slovak citizens, may acquire real estate in the country solely in the following cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the purpose of establish- ing diplomatic representation of a foreign country under conditions of mutuality; (3) when the real estate acquired is co-owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresident, or when a nonresident acquires real estate from a spouse, sib- ling, parent, or grandparent; (4) when there is an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonresident for other domestic fixed assets, the price of which, pursuant to separate regulations, does not exceed the price of the original real estate as determined in accordance with separate regulations; (5) when the nonresident has preemptive pur- chase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was built by the nonresident on his or her own land; and (7) when expressly permitted under separate legislation. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad A banking license is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) n.a. n.a. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed within the extent of the banking license. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. Banks are required to keep the ratio of foreign currency assets to liabilities below 1.05; their access to the exchange rate f ix ing sessions is subject to compliance with this requirement. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. n.a. Other controls imposed by securities n.a. laws Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements July 31. The margins of the exchange rate band were widened to ±5%. Arrangements for payments and receipts December 1. The limit on the exporting and importing of Slovak or foreign currency (banknotes and coins) was abolished and replaced with a requirement to declare the exported or imported amount if it exceeds Sk 150,000. Capital transactions December L (1) Financial credits with a maturity of 5 years ormore provided by Slovak residents to residents of OECD countries were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 763 December 1. (2) The receipt and provision of international trade credits for trade in goods and services with OECD members were liberalized on the condition that the creditor is a third party between the customer and the supplier. December 1. (3) Foreign borrowings by residents with a maturity of 3 years or more were liberalized. December 1. (4) The acquisition of real estate by Slovak residents in OECD member countries was liberalized. December I. (5) Direct investment by Slovak residents in OECD member countries was liberalized. Exchange arrangements January 1. The margins of the exchange rate band were widened to ±7%. Imports and import payments January 1. A nonautomatic licensing system was established for imports of coal. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of February 28, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Slovenia is the tolar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating The external value of the tolar is determined in the interbank exchange market, where the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may participate. The BOS also may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Juridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or between themselves. The BOS publishes daily a moving 2-month average ex- change rate for customs valuation and accounting purposes, as well as for government transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market There is a forward exchange market, but the volume of trading is not significant. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Yes. Slovenia maintains a payment agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia. The agreement allows juridical persons to conduct transactions through nonresi- dents' accounts held with banks. Provisions relating to the special clearing settlement are inoperative. Also, there is an agreement with Italy related to trade between the 2 border regions. The Law on Foreign Exchange Business (1991) introduced a free foreign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices, the BOS, and juridical and natural per- sons. The Law on Foreign Trade Transactions (1993) sets out the rules and regulations governing foreign trade activities. Cash transactions in foreign currencies are restricted; residents are required, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Business, to obtain permission from the BOS. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 764 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 765 In accordance with UN sanctions A special law adopted in 1992 in accordance with UN sanctions, amended on May 16, 1996, maintains certain restrictions with regard to assets pertaining to the Federal Re- pub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Natural persons may take abroad up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are allowed to take abroad cash exceeding that amount with prior approval of the BOS for each operation. Residents may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 3,000; amounts exceeding DM 3,000 require prior approval from the BOS. Natural persons may bring into the country up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are al- lowed to bring into the country cash exceeding that amount with prior approval of the BOS. There are reporting requirements for cash and checks exceeding the equivalent of SIT 2.2 m i l l ion for natural persons according to regulations on money-laundering prevention. Resident Accounts Resident ju r id ical persons are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts, with certain exceptions. Yes. Yes. Resident natural persons are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts without restriction. Resident juridical persons are allowed to maintain accounts in con- nection with payments provided under the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. Resident juridical persons may maintain accounts abroad only in specific cases. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad; resident natural persons are not allowed to do so. Approval of the BOS is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Withdrawals in cash from these accounts are limited to the equ iva lent of SIT 250,000 a month; amounts exceeding th is l im it are subject to BOS approval. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts and conduct tolar-denominated opera- tions. These accounts may be "by name" only. Tolar cash w i thdrawa ls are l im i ted to SIT 250,000 a mon th; w i thdrawa ls exceeding this amount are subject to pr ior approval of the BOS. Balances in these accounts may be converted into convertible currencies and repatriated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 766 SLOVENIA Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are blocked as per implementation of UN resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Commercial banks effect payments upon the presentation of documents reflecting the purpose of the transaction. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control only, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammunition), and for security and public health reasons, in accordance with international conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products. There are annual import quotas, which are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries with which Slovenia has free trade agreements. There are customs and specific duties that are in accordance with the range accepted in the WTO. Customs duties range up to 27% for individual products, and certain agricul- tural products are subject to a 57.5% rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than 1 year, the transactions must be registered with the BOS as credit arrangements. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have 2 business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely negotiated exchange rate or to use the proceeds for payments abroad. After that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance with the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. Yes. A tax is levied on unworked wood (4%); the tax is not paid for exports to countries with which Slovenia has a free trade agreement. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Residents are not allowed to purchase insurance abroad, except in the case of reinsur- ance by insurance companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 767 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are obliged to conduct their portfolio investments in the secondary market- traded securities and derivatives through the custody accounts established with the li- censed domestic banks, and held either in tolars or in foreign currency. Nonresidents may authorize either the licensed domestic bank or a proxy to effect transactions. The custody accounts representing a bank's foreign exchange l iab i l i ty need to be balanced with the equivalent foreign exchange assets. Nonresidents are not allowed to undertake such activities in the country. Foreign securi- ties may be offered in Slovenia only with the prior approval of the Agency for Securities Market, by domestic brokerage companies, and licensed banks. Purchase abroad by residents Banks are allowed to purchase securities abroad. Provisions regulating direct invest- ments and credit operations are applied in case of portfolio investments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchase locally by nonresidents apply. On money market instruments Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Commercial credits are subject to registration w i th the BOS, provided the payment for goods and services is deferred for more than 12 months. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Domestic banks may extend financial credits to nonresidents in accordance w i th the ir policy. Domestic companies, other than banks, may extend financial credits to compa- nies they control. There are interest-free deposit requirements: 40% for loans with maturities of up to 7 years (up to 5 years un t il end-July 1996) and 10% for loans with maturities of more than 7 years (for credits concluded after December 28, 1996), except for loans issued by commercial banks or the Republic of Slovenia. Domestic legal entities (companies) must obtain permission of the M in is try of Finance. The permission is granted provided that (1) the domestic company has been operating with the profit, and the funds used do not exceed the amount of the latter; and (2) the taxes and the customs have been paid in the country. Registration of foreign direct investments or establishment of (who l ly or partially) for- eign-owned companies is subject to the same conditions as those of domestic entities. Companies must be registered at the local Court of Justice, which is deemed to have informed the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development accordingly. Who l ly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 768 SLOVENIA Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange foreign-owned companies are not allowed in the military equipment field, rail and air transport, communications and telecommunications, insurance, publishing, and mass media. Furthermore, in the fo l low ing sectors, foreign participation is limited: auditing companies, stockbroking companies, management companies for investment funds, and authorized management companies. Foreign banks may not open branches in Slovenia, wh i le the foreign participation in banks or the establishment of subsidiaries of foreign banks is subject to the prior approval of the BOS. Foreign acquisition of more than 25% of shares of newly privatized companies is subject to governmental approval. Transfer of proceeds is free of any restrictions after all obligations in Slovenia have been met. Transfer of proceeds from realization of inheritance is free if the principle of reciprocity is guaranteed between Slovenia and the country of the recipient. Purchases that do not constitute a part of outward direct investments are, in principle, free. Foreigners may not own land and other real estate. Foreign states, however, may acquire rights to own property affixed to land used by them for diplomatic and consular pur- poses. Furthermore, foreigners may acquire a title to land only by inheritance, provided that reciprocity of such right of acquisition is recognized. Banks are not allowed to raise short-term loans abroad. There is an interest-free deposit requirement for loans with maturities of up to 7 years (up to 5 years un t il end-July 1996) of 40%. Authorized domestic banks are permitted to hold accounts with foreign banks, provided that they meet credit solvency requirements of the country in which the foreign bank has its headquarters. Domestic banks must report these accounts to the BOS. Domestic authorized banks are allowed to extend credits in foreign currency to domestic persons, other than natural persons, provided they exceed in the moment when the credit is approved their m in imum foreign exchange requirement, set by the BOS, by at least 10% and that the terms of the credit are not less favorable for the client than those pre- va i l ing on the international capital market. The funds so obtained may be used for pay- ments abroad or for refinancing of the existing obligations from previously extended credits pursuant to this regulation. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There is an interest-free deposit requirement on tolar and foreign exchange deposit ac- counts of foreign banks and financial institutions as applied for purely financial loans; no restrictions apply to the transaction accounts of foreign banks and financial institu- tions. There is no difference in treatment of tolar deposits owned by residents or nonresidents. Banks are prescribed to hold m in imum required assets in foreign currencies. The amount is determined for each bank on a monthly basis with regard to its foreign pay- ments operations (35% of the average monthly foreign payments over the last 3 months) and its foreign currency liabilities to households (for sight deposits 100%, time deposits up to 3 months 75%, time deposits over 3 months and up to 1 year 35%, and time de- posits over 1 year 5%) and nonresidents (for sight deposits 90%, time deposits up to 3 months 75%, time deposits over 3 months and up to 1 year 35%, and time deposits over 1 year 5%). From Ju ly 1996, commercial banks are obligated to match the net increase of certain foreign exchange obligations (and since December 1996, those of the companies they control) with certain foreign exchange claims. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 769 Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors The Law on Insurance Companies (1994) and the Law on Investment Funds and Man- agement Companies (1994) establish that: (1) Insurance stock companies may not be owned only by nonresidents; (2) Nonresidents can become stockholders of insurance companies only with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance; (3) If the majority of shares are owned by nonresidents, insurance companies cannot provide reinsurance; (4) Mutual insurance funds should be owned only by residents; (5) Management companies may be owned by nonresidents by more than 20% of shares only with the approval of the Agency of Securities Market; (6) Authorized management companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouchers in the privatization process) may be owned by more than 10% of shares only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market and the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Development; and (7) Investment stock companies (closed investment fund) may invest in foreign securi- ties up to 10% of total investments. Only foreign securities of explicitly stated stock exchanges by the Agency for Securities Market are eligible. The Law on Pension Insurance establishes that the capital fund of the Pension Insurance Stock Company is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Voluntary pension funds for extra pension rights are subject to rules for insurance stock companies. Yes. Yes. The Law on Securities Market (1994) imposes restrictions on ownership by nonresi- dents of licensed market participants-brokers. Nonresidents may own up to 24% of the capital of a broker's company only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market. Changes During 1996 May 16. The special law with regard to UN sanctions was amended, maintaining certain restrictions with regard to assets pertaining to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). July 31. The maturity of loans borrowed abroad by residents subject to 40% interest-free deposit requirements was extended to 7 years from 5 years. December 28. A 10% interest-free deposit requirement was introduced applicable to loans borrowed abroad by residents with maturities of more than 7 years. Changes During 1997 February 4. Cash withdrawals from foreign exchange accounts were limited to SIT 250,000 a month, or its equivalent. Amounts exceeding this limit are subject to BOS approval. January 21. Domestic banks were allowed to extend financial credits to nonresidents in accordance w i th the ir policy. Domestic companies, other than banks, may extend f inan- cial credits to companies they control. February 4. Nonresidents are required to conduct their portfolio investments in the sec- ondary market-traded securities and derivatives through custody accounts established with licensed domestic banks. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Nonresident accounts Capital transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 24, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is pegged to a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' 4 major trading partners. The Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.4% above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month. The CBSI provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the CBSI and the public. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. Exchange tax A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. Forward exchange market Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Is- lands in any currency. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met only by payments in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. Payment arrangements n.a. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Exchange control is administered by the CBSI through the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations (1977). The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign' exchange and may approve certain transactions up to specified limits. Certain restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Commercial m in ing companies require a license from the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine gold. 770 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 771 Controls on external trade Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the CBSI, which is not normally given. n.a. n.a. Nonresidents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditures. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts in cases where there is a genuine need. Held domestically Held abroad n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange accounts may be held, but proof of bona fide need is required. Ap- proval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts can be held only at authorized foreign exchange dealers. Convertible into foreign currency Balances may be transferred abroad with the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. CBSI approval is required for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Imports and Import Payments Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 without reference to the CBSI. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs The rate of import levy is 8%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 SOLOMON ISLANDS Taxes collected through the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i th in 3 months of the date of exportation. Surrender requ irements Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Residents may export goods other than round logs without exchange control formalities, but they must comply with the terms of a general authorization issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs require specific authority from the CBSI upon presentation of a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation, and Environ- ment. If exporters cannot meet the conditions of a general authorization (repatriation, surren- der, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for a specific authorization. Authorization is not needed for goods valued under SIS250 in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of passengers. n.a. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 35% if valued up to SI$250 per cubic meter and 38% if of greater value. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, and family maintenance and alimony. Transfers by postal order to persons residing permanently abroad are permitted up to SIS 100 a week. Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Approval is readily granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas. Approval is readily granted for payments of services and remittances of dividends, prof- its, and other earnings accruing to nonresidents from companies in the Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly due. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be submitted to an authorized dealer, and presentation of passports and airline tickets is required. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Study abroad costs Subscriptions and membership fees n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 773 Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad n.a. Approval is readily granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Approval is required for the disposal of proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval by the CBSI. On capital market securities CBSI approval is required for transactions with these securities. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls are not normally imposed on the sale of foreign securities acquired before March 1, 1997. On money market instruments On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents CBSI approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBSI approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents CBSI approval is required to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a non- resident. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents The Solomon Islands branch of a company incorporated overseas must have CBSI ap- proval for borrow ing funds from a nonresident, inc lud ing the branch's overseas head office. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inves tment by resident ind iv idua ls or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations and when it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 774 SOLOMON ISLANDS Inward direct investment Approval by the Foreign Investment Board is required for initial or increased foreign investment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Approval is readily given for the transfer of proceeds. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements n.a. Liquid asset requirements There is a 40% requirement. Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set for each commercial bank. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali shilling. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market comprising the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and the 2 commercial banks operating as authorized dealers; the official rate applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the govern- ment; and (2) a free market, in which the exchange rate is freely negotiated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and exter- nal accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali sh i l l ing is determined in the free market by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified cur- rencies (deutsche mark, D j ibou ti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Exchange control authorities Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the CBS. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold and acquire, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require the permission of the CBS; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down w i th in 1 month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that originate in member countries of the EU are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10% duty. 775 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 776 SOMALIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency n.a. On imports Domestic currency Nonresidents may br ing in with them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank, which acts on behalf of the CBS. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for inv is ib le payments as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents tak- ing place through external accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to im- porters holding export/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise import payments. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the CBS by foreign embassies, international institutions, and nonresidents. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit (LCs). Private importers may open LCs for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign ex- change made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account un t il the time of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirements Yes. Advance import deposits A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is required to open LCs for pri- vate sector imports; the deposit is retained un t il the LCs are settled. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 777 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70% of their export earnings. Documentation requirements For exports other than those made under LC arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100% of the value of exports is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval. Yes. n.a. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of m in imum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel All payments and transfers are subject to prior approval. Payments to Israel are prohib- ited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for current inv is ib les through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. The CBS provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the CBS. Quantitative limits There is a l im it of $200 a person a trip for business and tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 778 Medical costs SOMALIA Quantitative limits The limit is $3,000 a year for medical costs. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The limit is $1,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Foreign workers' wages Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign per- sonnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50%. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers within 5 business days of their receipts. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment SOMALIA 779 Yes. Yes. Investments must obtain approval from the Foreign Investment Board, wh ich reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, w i th in a 60-day period. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repa- triated 5 years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned 5-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable after taxes are paid. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Changes During 1995-96 [The IMF has not received from the authorities the information required for a descrip- tion of the exchange and trade system as of December 1995 and December 1996.] ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Currency The currency of South Africa is the rand. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control au thor i t ies The exchange rate of the rand is determined in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins with respect to exchange transac- tions, but intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward ex- change operations, inc lud ing cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and to ascertain foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by non- residents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Sub- ject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresi- dents. Gold m in ing companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu tu re gold sales. The South Afr ican Reserve Bank (SAKE) provides forward cover only against U.S. dollars. Such cover is given only against documentary evidence of foreign f inanc ing transactions to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand-dollar swap transactions, with the margin based on an interest rate differential be- tween the dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available from authorized dealers only. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All coun tr ies outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Nam ib ia but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA w i th the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland). L i langeni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Na- m ib ia dollar notes issued by Nam ib ia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. South A f r ica is part of the CMA. Payments w i th in the CMA are unrestricted. Exchange l icens ing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treasury, which has delegated this au tho r i ty to the SARB; in tu rn, the SARB has delegated many of its powers to the au thor ized dealers. 780 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 781 International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions According to UN Security Council Resolution No. 661, South Africa imposed restric- tions on current payments and transfers to Iraq. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Afr ica for num isma t ic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus tr ial and professional users are allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry. The gold m in ing industry must sell its output to the SARD, as agent for the Treasury, w i th in 1 month of produc- tion. The SARB pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for the ir sales of production. As a special concession, the Chamber of Mines may sell or market one-third of South Af- rica's annual production of gold in the form of value-added gold products not exceeding 1 kilogram each. The m int strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers for exports of jewe lry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 50,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry w i ll be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, inc lud ing certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. Notes up to R 2,000 may be exported, but th is amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The l im i ta t ion does not apply to migrant workers re turn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica may take with them up to R 2,000 in SARB notes. Residents and contract workers leaving South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out their allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica may take with them any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries outside the CMA may br ing in up to R 2,000 in SARB notes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the importation of domestic cur- rency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 782 Held abroad SOUTH AFRICA These accounts are permitted, but approval is granted based on the merit of the applica- tion, and in most circumstances only if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be facilitated. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. These accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by residents, with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers, and with payments from other nonresident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by trans- fer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders re- siding in South Africa for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements These accounts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Any cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to residents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. Payments are allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except for capital goods imports. Authorized dealers can permit, without the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are automatically granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Negative list Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, w i th the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The negative list includes all used goods; waste and scrap; fish, crustaceans, and mol- lusks; dairy products; dried fru i t; black tea; certain vegetables and agricultural products; wines; mineral fuels; radioactive chemicals; new pneumatic tires; gold and coins; certain minerals and firearms; gambling machines; and ozone-depleting substances. All import- ers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 783 the Sub-directorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Licenses with quotas Import quotas apply to certain agricultural and a number of manufactured products. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Tariff rates range up to 40%, except for motor vehicles, the rate for which is set at 57%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa. Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be received w i th in 6 mon ths of the date of shipment or 7 days of the date of accrual. Except for exports made on a cash-on- delivery basis or those for which the fu ll proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds w i th in 7 days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in that particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports outside the SACU of a limited number of products considered to be in re la t ive ly short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative ex- penses, interest, commissions, medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and mem- bership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, gamb l ing and prize earnings, and the remittances of profits and d iv idends are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Freight/insurance Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits For trade-related payments, documentary evidence or declaration must be produced at the t ime of app ly ing for foreign currency. Authorized dealers may grant approval provided that (1) the Department of Trade and Industry and the SARB have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remit- tance of profits and d iv idends does not invo lve excessive use of local credit fac i l i t ies. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the ir country of residence. In June 1996, a single l im it was set for tourist and business travel allowance at R 60,000 a year for an adult (R 20,000 for a child under 12) at an average daily rate not to exceed R 2,000 a day for the dura t ion of the visit. Separately, an annual basic exchange alloca- tion of R 20,000 an adult (R 5,000 for a child under 12) was set for travel to neighbor- ing countries (Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) at an average daily rate not exceeding R 1,000 a day for the duration of the visit. From Ju ly 1, 1997, South African residents trave l ing abroad w i ll be allowed a max imum of R 80,000 for each person 12 years and older, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 784 SOUTH AFRICA R 25,000 for a child under 12, a calendar year, without any daily limit, irrespective of the country of destination. Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval o f theSARB. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 80,000 a year, or R 160,000 if the student is accompanied by a spouse. Foreign workers' wages Amounts remitted must be the worker's own funds. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Prior approval is required for amounts exceeding R 2,000 a month for a receiving fam- i ly. There are no limits set for a l imony payments, but a court order is required. Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 2,000 a receiving fam i ly a month. Authorization is given only for use when traveling (an undertaking has to be signed to that effect). Quantitative limits Expenditure may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents The issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior exchange control approval, which is not norma l ly granted. Approval is required. Ins t i tu t ions may obtain portfolio investments abroad under approval (asset swaps). Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. On money market instruments The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are not allowed. Resident institutions may ac- qu i re investments as part of their approved portfolio investments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment SOUTH AFRICA 785 Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter (OTC) transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to 6 months. Banks may in certain circumstances allow a further extension of 6 months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control approval. In respect of services, payment has to be received in terms of the contract between the parties w i th in a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended without prior approval. However, nonresident wholly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholders' investment (i.e., the paid-up equity capital, preference shares, undistrib- uted profits, shareholders' loans from abroad, and, in certain instances, the hard core of shareholders' trade credit). The ability to borrow locally increases with the size of local participation by a set formula, which is generally granted. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments, and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transactions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Investments by ind iv idua ls are not permitted. Request by companies are considered in light of national interest, such as the benefit to South Africa's international reserves by, for example, generating exports of goods and services. Companies may be allowed to transfer up to R 30 million to finance approved investments abroad, and up to R 50 m i l l ion for approved new investment in SADC countries other than Namibia, Swaziland, and Lesotho, where funds already flow freely. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad A South African may not purchase real estate outside South Africa/CMA w i thout ex- change control approval. All borrowings abroad by residents require exchange control approval. Banks may con- tract short-term working capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may open Nostro accounts at their discretion. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000 provided that the total credit made available to a certain person from any source does not exceed this amount. Facilities exceeding th is amount must obtain exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 786 SOUTH AFRICA Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Africa. Reserve requirements on all deposit accounts, held by residents or nonresidents and denominated in either rand or foreign exchange, are 2% of the amount of the deposit plus a further 1% on short-term liabilities (under 31 days). Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of adjusted total liabilities. Investment regulations Investment in equity is limited to 100% of capital plus reserves. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 15% of qua l i fy ing capital p lus reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad There are no exchange control restrictions on inward portfolio investment. On outward portfolio investment, the exchange control may authorize up to 10% of total assets for each qua l ify ing institution (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and unit trusts) to be invested abroad by way of an asset swap. Subject to the overall limit of 10% of total assets, these institutions can invest up to 3% of the net inflow of funds for the calendar year 1996 in 1997, and an additional 2% in securities listed on stock exchanges in SADC countries. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts June 24. The limit on rand banknotes that may be imported or exported was increased to R 1,000 from R 500. Changes During 1996 Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers July 30. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted. June 24. The separate limits for leisure and business travel were dispensed with and the l im it for "neighboring countries" was set at R 20,000 for adults and R 5,000 for children with a daily l im it of R 1,000. For other countries, the l im it was set at R 60,000 for adults and R 20,000 for children at a daily l im it of R 2,000. Virtually all quantitative limits on current payments and transfers doubled. June 24. The limit on rand banknotes that may be imported or exported was increased to R 1,000 from R 500. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers March 25. Cash cover in foreign currency was permitted as security for securities lend- ing transactions, provided the amount is held in aNostro account of a South African authorized dealer. Capital transactions June 24. Access to domestic credit by foreign controlled entities was relaxed and the local financial assistance ratio doubled to 100% from 50%. June 24. The l im it to enter into asset swaps by institutional investors was increased to 10% from 5% of local assets. They were also permitted to make foreign currency trans- fers du r ing 1996 of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds generated during the 1995 cal- endar year w i th in the overall 10% of total asset limit. June 24. Offshore investment expansion by corporations was permitted, provided it is financed by profits generated offshore from existing assets or financed abroad without recourse to South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 787 June 24. Direct investment by corporations in countries outside the CMA w i ll only be required to demonstrate a longer-term benefit to the country as opposed to an immediate benefit. September 20. South Africans temporarily residing abroad were permitted to enjoy the same settling-in allowance as emigrants. September 20. The ratio of 1:3 shareholders equity to shareholders loan funds of an affected person was eliminated. November 21. Quoted securities may be exported as part or in lieu of the emigration facilities. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The limit on banknotes that may be imported or exported was increased to R 2,000 from R 1,000. Exports and export proceeds March 13. The 7-day requ irement w i th in which foreign currency proceeds must be of- fered for sale was increased to 30 days. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions March 13. All quantitative limits on current payments and transfers were abolished with the exception of the l im i ts applicable to travel, study abroad, gifts, and maintenance payments. The l im it on allowances for study abroad was increased to R 80,000 a year (R 5,000 a month), and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 160,000 a year (R 10,000 a month). The student holiday allowance was increased to R 20,000 (R 10,000), and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 40,000 (R 20,000). Travel allowance l im i ts were amended by amalgamating the travel fac i l i t ies applicable to neighboring and other countries as well as dispensing with the daily l im it restriction. The limit was set at R 80,000 an adult and R 25,000 a child under 12 for a calendar year. The fu ll travel facility may be taken in foreign banknotes. A traveler may now purchase the required foreign currency up to 60 days (28 days for travel to ne ighbor ing countries) prior to departure. The l im it for fam i ly maintenance transfers was increased to R 2,000 a month from R 200 a month for a receiving fam i ly un i t. March 13. Direct investment by corporations in countries outside of the CMA of up to R 30 m i l l ion was permitted. In respect of investment into SADC countries, an amount of up to R 50 m i l l ion may be allowed. Where the cost of investment exceeds the afore- mentioned amounts, the balance has to be financed abroad. As opposed to previous policy, consideration w i ll now be given to such foreign borrowing being raised with recourse to or a guarantee from South Africa imp ly ing that the local corporate's balance sheet may be used in negotiating such a facility. March 13. Institutional investors may avail themselves of foreign currency transfers dur ing 1997 of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds during the 1996 calendar year, sub- ject to an overall l im it of 10% of their total assets. Add i t iona l ly, transfers dur ing 1997 of up to 2% of the net in f low of funds du r ing the 1996 calendar year may be allowed to be invested on registered stock exchanges in any SADC member country. This dispensa- tion is also subject to the overall l im it of 10% of total assets applicable to asset swaps. Un it trust management companies may acquire foreign portfolio investments by way of asset swaps for up to 10% of total assets under management. March 13. The def in i t ion of an "affected person" is amended by substituting the figure 50 for the f igure 25. March 13. Authorized dealers may grant facilities to nonaffected and affected persons w i th reliance on guarantees from abroad, provided the local financial assistance ac- corded the affected person does not exceed the l im it calculated in terms of the fo rmu la ratio. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 15, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Spain is the peseta. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. C lass i f ica t ion Cooperative arrangement Spain participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the peseta and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (BOS), the cen- tral bank, stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amounts at specified intervention rates. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and fu tu res on the peseta are traded in major f inanc ial markets. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Internat ional security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Me l i l la constitute a single exchange control territory. The Directorate-General of Foreign Investment and Commercial Policy has the power to authorize, ve r i fy, control, and monitor foreign investments and economic transactions, collections, payments, and transfers with the rest of the world. The Directorate-General of the Treasury and Financial Policy has authority to conduct the investigations and inspections required to prepare or change the policy applied in matters concerning ex- change control as well as to initiate, address, and rule on penalties applied w i th regard to exchange control. In addition, the BOS has authority in a number of areas such as the following: (1) granting authorization to banks, savings and loans, and other financial institutions, when required, to transact business on the foreign exchange market, and registering ins t i tu t ions open to the pub l ic to engage in foreign exchange activities; (2) rece iv ing informa t ion on collections, payments, and transfers abroad in which regis- tered ins t i tu t ions are involved, and issuing instructions pertaining to the content, proce- dures, and frequency for such reporting; and (3) receiving information on f inanc ial and commercial credits and loans, accounts abroad held by residents in Spain, and netting operations. Specific financial transactions with Iraq and Libya are subject to authorization. On March 6, 1997, trade with Iraq was prohibited with the fo l low ing exceptions: imports of petroleum and petroleum products and exports (or transit through Spanish territory), 788 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) SPAIN 789 items of basic necessity, medical products, and items that were approved by the commit- tee established in UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990). Spain notified the Fund on September 21, 1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). On April 26, 1996, these restric- tions were lifted. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports of bu l l ion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, depending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33%. The exportation of banknotes, coins, or bearer checks in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 1 million must be declared. Foreign currency Yes. On imports Domestic currency The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, or bearer checks must be declared by nonresidents in certain cases. Foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to these accounts may be freely made. However, account holders are required to report the opening of such accounts and to provide information pertaining to credit and debit activities occurring in the accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 790 Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas SPAIN Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Imports of tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold must be authorized by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin, or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made among the members of the EU, those of the EFTA and the Mediterranean and ACP member countries of the WTO, and state trading countries). Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of textiles, steel, and some copper by-products require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 791 Purchase locally by nonresidents The restriction applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participat- ing nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents ( ind iv idua ls or legal entities other than registered institutions) are required to f i le reports to the BOS of loans with a maturity of more than 1 year granted to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Residents other than registered institutions are required to file reports to the BOS for credits with a maturity of more than 1 year. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are required to f i le a declaration with the BOS. To residents from nonresidents Residents are required to f i le a declaration with the BOS. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Prior administrative verification is required in the fo l low ing cases: (1) when the invest- ment amounts to at least Ptas 250 m i l l ion; (2) when the activity of the entity receiving the investment is the direct or indirect holding of share capital of other entities, irre- spective of the amount of the investment; and (3) when the investment is made in a tax haven country. Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines estab- lished by the OECD that take into account whether effective control over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the investment is at least 10% of the company's capital. Prior verification is required only when foreign participation exceeds 50% and at least one of the fo l low ing conditions applies: (1) for- eign participation exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (2) foreign investors are residents of tax haven countries. Special authorization is required for non-EU foreign investment in television, radio, air transport, gambling, and defense-related industries. Special authori- zation is also required for a foreign government's participation in Spanish companies (other than governments of EU countries), unless otherwise regulated by international treaties. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases that exceed Ptas 250 m i l l ion requ ire prior verification. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior verification is required for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 m i l l ion or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Financial credits obtained should be reported to the BOS. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publication applicable to credit institutions. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Nonresident deposit accounts may be opened and mobilized w i thout restriction, w i th the exception of collections and payments from residents to nonresidents effected by account debits or credits. In such cases, information pertaining to the operation, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 792 SPAIN including whether the operation involves credits to accounts of nonresidents by nonresi- dents, must be declared, in which case certification of origin must be provided. For non- resident accounts, this status must be indicated. Accordingly, the holder must provide documentation attesting to nonresidency, and this status must be confirmed every year. Regular foreign peseta accounts and convertible foreign peseta accounts are governed by the provisions for nonresident deposits. Reserve requirements Yes. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Regulations d i f fer according to the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 26. Security restrictions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted. Changes During 1996 Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 6. Trade with Iraq was prohibited with the following exceptions: imports of pe- troleum and petroleum products and exports (or transit through Spanish territory), items of basic necessity, medical products, and items that were approved by the committee established in UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) announces the daily spot buy ing and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for transactions with commercial banks w i th in margins of 2%, and buys and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at those rates. No. No. Forward sales are permitted except for capital transfers and amortization of loans, up to a period of 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transactions are freely determined. They may cover such pur- chases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions and settlements are effected in U.S. dollars. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees provided that the supplier maintains a nonresident account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior ap- proval of the CBSL. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated for- eign currencies, in Sri Lanka rupees from a nonresident account that a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident account that a person maintains with an authorized dealer, as approved by the CBSL. Payment arrangements No. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through autho- rized commercial banks in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange (CoE). Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the CoE. The Board of Investments (BOI) handles all applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade The importation of gold for domestic, industrial, or commercial purpose is permitted without restrictions. Commercial banks may import gold on a consignment basis for 793 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 SRI LANKA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency duty-free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport. Reexportation of nonmonetary gold is allowed only in special circumstances. The exportation of gold coins and bullion requires licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the CoE. Sri Lanka nationals may each take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes only at exit points, with original encashment documents issued by the authorized dealers or money changers. Individuals may take out foreign currency for travel purposes and are required to declare to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Diplomats and non-Sri Lanka staff of foreign missions traveling abroad can take foreign currency notes in reasonable quantities for travel expenses. Sri Lanka nationals may each bring into Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Travelers must declare at entry foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts with a m in imum balance equivalent to $500 in designated currencies and up to $10,000 without prior approval or with documentary evidence of receipt of funds through customs declarations. Held abroad These accounts are permitted; prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Sri Lankans employed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lanka who are employed and reside abroad may maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in desig- nated foreign currencies. Credits to the accounts are limited to remittances from em- ployment earnings abroad, foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by ind iv idua ls, and interest payments in designated currencies. These accounts may be freely debited for payments abroad, with the exception of payments for the sale of mov- able or immovable property in Sri Lanka, purchase of capital assets abroad by residents, or for payments within Sri Lanka. Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in en- terprises approved by the BOI, with exemptions granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the CoE. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 10 designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its foreign currency banking unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts SRI LANKA 795 accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the CoE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to outward remittances and to payments after converting into Sri Lanka rupees. Prior approval is not required. These accounts may be held by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for catego- ries (1M4), credits from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements or out- ward remittances may be effected freely; however, local credits to these require pr ior approval. Accounts in category (4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be freely effected, w i thout prior approval; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require prior approval. In cate- gory (5), foreign banks may open and operate nonresident accounts w i th local commer- cial banks without pr ior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Yes. Yes. These accounts are used to hold funds, usually of nonresidents, repatriates, and emi- grants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions and in- come tax refunds. Balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstanding on March 25, 1991, exc lud ing Sri Lankan citi- zens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship and Ind ian and Pakistani expa- triates, may be remitted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lankan citizens who have acquired permanent resident status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than 5 years as of June 30, 1995, are also permitted to remit their account balances abroad. Except in the specified cases, remittances of up to SL Rs 350,000 are also allowed from these accounts w i thout prior approval. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Authorized dealers may approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit (LC) and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $3,000 (c.i.f), consists of raw ma- terials and spare parts for industries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Advance payment requirements Advance payments for personal imports are limited to $3,000. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports could be made on documents against payments (D/P) and documents on accep- tance (D/A) terms w i thout LCs being established, provided the shipping documents are routed through the supplier's bank to the importer's bank in Sri Lanka. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Inspection is requ ired for certain consumer goods. The requirement of establishing LCs for imports was lifted on March 21, 1996. Most items do not require licenses, except imports of wheat, meslin, and wheat and meslin flour. Licensing requirements for imports of potatoes and big onions were elimi- nated on March 21, 1996. Certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the BOI. The tariff structure consists of 3 band rates: 35%, 20%, and 10%. A few categories of products (e.g., tobacco, liquor, crude oil, and some categories of motor vehicles) remain outside th is tariff structure. A stamp duty of 2% is levied on LCs for certain imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 SRI LANKA Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopo ly Imports of certain items, including wheat, guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and petroleum products, are restricted to government or state corporations. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the ACU. No. Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from their foreign currency bank- ing units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the pur- pose of executing export orders. Since January 3, 1997, banks may grant these loans also from their domestic banking units. This facility is limited to 70% of the total value of the confirmed export order. The period of repayment of these loans is 8 months. Companies engaged in indirect exports may obtain foreign currency loans for the impor- tation of raw materials on the basis of back-to-back LCs opened in foreign currency for receipt of payment in foreign currency, inc lud ing payments from BOI enterprises. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, timber, ivory and ivory products, and passenger vehicles registered in Sri Lanka prior to 1945. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for un load ing and storage costs and administrative expenses are free. All other payments and transfers are subject to indicative limits and/or bona f ide tests. Freight/insurance Commissions Quantitative limits Interest payments Quantitative limits Profit/dividends Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Remittances of premium for insurance on exports are not permitted. Remittances of premium to foreign reinsurers for reinsurance are permitted. Reasonable amounts are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad, pro- vided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. n.a. n.a. Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior approval if they relate to the year of application and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. How- ever, considerable documentation is required to remit interim profits or dividends, or final profits or dividends. Technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meet- ing expenses and paying taxes and levies. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 797 Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Yes. Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Funds held abroad with CoE permission should not be used for the acquisition of prop- erty or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Capital Transactions Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100% of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain exclusions and limita- tions, without prior approval from the CoE through a Share Investment External Rupee Account maintained at a commercial bank. Companies incorporated abroad are permit- ted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved country funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individuals. Yes. Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that they w i ll promote the country's exports and generate reasonable profits. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that they w i ll promote the coun try's exports and generate reasonable profits. Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the type of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership. Approval is automatically granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40%, except for certain activities restricted by special law or specific organizations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 SRI LANKA Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of approved investments, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in fu l l. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in fu ll assets representing their retirement funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a rea- sonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presenta- tion of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by normal direct route plus 20% of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign exchange equivalent up to $2,000 an adult and $1,000 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects of reasonable amounts plus jewelry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married female, SL Rs 60,000 for unmarried females, SL Rs 30,000 for female emigrants under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for male emigrants can be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 an individual, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million a fam- ily unit. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements January 1. All transactions among ACU member countries take place in U.S. dollars. Imports and import payments March 21. The requirement of establishing LCs for imports was lifted. July 26. Import licensing requirements for potatoes and big onions were eliminated. Changes During 1997 Exports and export proceeds January 3. Commercial banks were permitted to lend in foreign currency from the re- sources available in the foreign currency banking units in addition to domestic banking units. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese dinar. The Sudanese pound (LSd) also circulates and has a fixed relationship to the Sudanese d i n a r ( S d ) o f L S d lO = S d l. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate for the Sudanese dinar is determined in the market. Both commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to freely quote buy ing and selling exchange rates to be applied to all transactions, other than certain compulsory sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the Bank of Sudan (BOS). The spread between commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates was changed from LSd 7 per U.S. dollar to 1.5% of each bank's buy ing price. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries, except Egypt, and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free currency account or special foreign cur- rency account, wh i le receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any con- vertible currency. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative There is an agreement with Egypt, which has been suspended since 1992. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the BOS with the assistance of the authorized deal- ers, that is, commercial and specialized banks as well as nonbanks acting as exchange houses. Internat ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade With certain exceptions, only monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users of gold are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry. Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold for num isma t ic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require a license issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for industrial users and for monetary authorities. 799 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 800 SUDAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Travelers may export up to LSd 5,000. Up to $5,000 can be taken out of the country. Travelers may import up to LSd 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount, but it must be declared and w i th in 3 months either deposited in a foreign currency account, sold to an authorized dealer, or retransferred abroad. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. All residents, except the government, pub l ic institutions, and pub l ic sector enterprises are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. These accounts may be credited with any means of payment without restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash deposits. Withdrawals from these accounts may be used to make transfers abroad; to make transfers to other free accounts; to purchase domestic currency; to make pay- ments in foreign exchange to domestic institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign exchange; and for any other purpose. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organizations; foreign charities and aid organizations; foreign companies, foreign contractors, and the foreign personnel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency in order to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to finance imports. Withdrawals can be made for the purpose of travel by the ac- count holder or his or her family, and local payments in Sudanese pounds, requiring conversion to Sudanese currency at the commercial bank rate. Except for airline companies, approval is required to open these accounts. These ac- counts may be credited with payments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened by the same ind iv idua ls and organizations as those al- lowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Balances may be converted subject to the purpose for conversion and if supported with documentary evidence. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 801 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Authorized banks are free to obtain a deposit of any amount in foreign currency from the importer at least 1 month before the importer receives the shipping documents. Im- ports financed at the commercial market rate, including those financed with letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit of up to the fu ll c.i.f. value. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a valid commercial registration certificate, a valid tax clearance certificate, and a written consent of the authorized bod- ies for certain categories of imports. Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures n.a. n.a. Licenses are required for imports through bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. Negative list Certain imports are prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and national security. Other nontariff measures Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. Yes. No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 45 days of the date of the bill of lading. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes As of August 12, 1996, exporters must surrender 30% and 70% to the BOS and the commercial banks, respectively. Until June 12, 1996, these ratios were 50% and 50%, respectively; at that time, they were changed to 40% and 60%, respectively. Exporters of winter cotton must surrender 100% of their proceeds to the BOS; exporters of gum arabic must surrender 95% to the BOS and 5% to the commercial banks; while exporters of cattle and meat, sunflower seeds, fruits and vegetables, and manufactured goods may retain 50% of their proceeds and surrender 15% to the BOS and the remaining 35% to the commercial banks. Licenses are required for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and under barter trade. All exports to Israel are prohibited, as is the exportation of hides and skins, and charcoal and firewood. n.a. Taxes are levied on all goods, except those that are exported under bilateral protocol arrangements and under barter agreements. The tax rate is 5%, except for cotton and gum arabic, wh ich are taxed at 10%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for unloading and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, travel, consulting and legal fees, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 SUDAN Interest payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits family maintenance and alimony, and credit card use abroad. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Amortization payments on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regarding the original amount of the foreign loans. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Up to 50% of earnings can be transferred abroad, provided that certain documents are presented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Sudanese nationals working abroad are required to remit annually to domestic residents a m in imum amount of foreign exchange, ranging from $300 to $5,000. Exceptions are allowed. During 1996, proceeds were to be surrendered in the following ratios: from February 25 to April 9, 70% to the BOS and 30% to commercial banks; from April 10 to June 11, 50% to the BOS and 50% to commercial banks; from June 12 to August 11, 40% to the BOS and 60% to commercial banks; and from August 12 to November 13, 30% to the BOS and 70% to commercial banks. From November 14, 1996, to March 12, 1997, 85% was surrendered to the BOS and 15% to commercial banks. Since March 13, 1997, all proceeds may be surrendered to commercial banks. Shipping agencies are required to sell all foreign exchange proceeds to authorized dealers. Capital Transactions Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. SUDAN 803 Controls on credit operations Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments are subject to the approval of the investment authority. Repatriation must be approved by the BOS after submission of audited balance sheets and tax clearance certificates. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1996 Exports and export proceeds April 13. General surrender requirements were set at 50% to the BOS and 50% to com- mercial banks. e^ June 12. General surrender requirements were set at 40% to the BOS and 60% to com- mercial banks. August 12. General surrender requirements were set at 30% to the BOS and 70% to commercial banks. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 25. Surrender requirements were set at 70% to the BOS and 30% to commer- cial banks. April 10. Surrender requirements were set at 50% to the BOS and 50% to commercial banks. June 12. Surrender requirements were set at 40% to the BOS and 60% to commercial banks. August 12. Surrender requirements were set at 30% to the BOS and 70% to commercial banks. November 14. Surrender requirements were set at 85% to the BOS and 15% to com- mercial banks. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers March 13. All proceeds were allowed to be surrendered to commercial banks. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: June 29, 1978. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Suriname is the Suriname guilder. Three gold coins are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange rates are freely determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange houses may trade foreign exchange with customers, among themselves, or with the Central Bank of Suriname (CBS) on a freely negotiable basis. The CBS also trades foreign exchange with the government, but not with importers. The CBS determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, which is based on the weighted-average rate of commercial bank transactions over the last 5 days. Commercial banks charge commissions of 2% on sales of foreign exchange and 9.25% on transfers. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries are not per- mitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies (Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars). The CBS (1) is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment), this power has been delegated to commercial banks; and (2) approves import licenses if imports are paid w i th a letter of credit (LC). Commercial banks (1) provide foreign exchange for imports. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments not requ i r ing an exchange license, banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license; and (2) may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad. The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) grants export and import licenses. However, 2 specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. The Federal Exchange Commission (FEC) (1) grants licenses for external payments other than imports of goods; (2) approves foreign loans; and (3) appoints authorized banks. 804 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency SURINAME 805 These arrears are owed largely to Brazil, n.a. Producers of gold may sell on ly to the authorized gold buyers (the CBS and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the CBS. The author- ized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for in- dustrial and artistic purposes. Dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet the demand for industrial purposes, the CBS may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins with face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250 are legal ten- der. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and invest- ment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the FEC. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely br ing in gold, subject to declaration and prov ided that they surren- der it to the CBS w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely br ing in gold, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in addition, im- ports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Both resident and nonres ident travelers may take out up to Sf 100. Exports in excess of $10,000 require a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to Sf 100. Travelers may bring in up to $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the country up to the amount they brought in and declared on entry. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Na tural persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident nonbanks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts w i th domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, prov ided that the funds have not been ac- qu ired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in these accounts and ho ld ings of fore ign assets may be used free ly, except for travel, for wh ich there is a l im it of Sf 1,500 a person a year. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 SURINAME E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in U.S. dollars with do- mestic banks with prior permission from the FEC; no overdrafts are permitted. These accounts may not be credited with Surinamese tender. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with do- mestic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Author- ized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresi- dent banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Non- resident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad. Imports and Import Payments Convertible into foreign currency n.a. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses serve as a general authorization for payment. In case of payment by LC, the import license must be approved by the CBS. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for all imports and are valid for 6 months, during which period the goods must be landed and paid for. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. Imports of some commodities are prohibited: pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, and turkey meat; pork; fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked her- ring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus fruits; bananas and plantains; coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet); aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, je l ly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood; railroad ties; shingles; wooden structures for construction; wooden tiles and panels; wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Yes. Commodities subject to quotas include kwie kwie fish, m i lk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, f ru i ts and nu ts (other than citrus fru i ts, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaf- feinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 807 Import taxes and/or tar iffs furn ish ings, ready-made clothing, and fu rn i tu re (excluding that for business establish- ments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of all imports. A statistical fee of 2.0% is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of imports of bauxite com- panies, and 0.5% of the c.i.f. va lue of other imports, inc lud ing imports of gold. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). Exporters of bauxite and bananas must surrender foreign exchange proceeds to the CBS at the off ic ial exchange rate. Bauxite companies are not subject to export surrender re- quirements but must sell foreign exchange to the CBS to pay for their local expendi- tures. Other exporters must surrender their proceeds to authorized commercial banks and are allowed to buy back up to 85% of the amount surrendered. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. To ver- ify prices, the MTI ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports requ i re licenses issued by the MTI. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and p lan t ing materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agri- culture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboon wood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. n.a. n.a. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 100% of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0% of their f.o.b. value, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of their f.o.b. value. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Profit/dividends Transactions invo lv ing outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least 1 month before the in- tended date for effecting such a transaction. License applications must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Transfers of profits from investments made after Ju ly 31, 1953, are permitted. License application must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for veri- fication. Profits must be transferred w i th in 3 years; otherwise, they are considered to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 SURINAME Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonaflde test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits have become part of the f i rm 's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20%. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equivalent of $1,500 a person a calendar year. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign ex- change up to Sf 150 a month for payment of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, etc.) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Indicative limits/bonaflde test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The head of a repatriating family may transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10% of his or her total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during the period of residence. If his or her Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be trans- ferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Indicative limits/bonaflde test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Capital Transactions On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requires the prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under- taken for the account of their customers. Banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. By residents to nonresidents Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 809 To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments are not permitted, but exceptions may be made when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of up to 10 years. The FEC may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sf 5,000 a year. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Transfers are permitted at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Also permitted are transfers of capital proceeds from the sale to residents, or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign- owned companies or other forms of enterprise established by nonresidents with foreign capital after Ju ly 31, 1953. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. Authorized banks are permitted to place part of their l iqu id funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The CBS guarantees the LCs issued by the authorized banks by pledg- ing its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a m in imum level. This arrangement applies to the state-controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under- taken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in pr inc ip le, to surren- der to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 16. Surinamese traveling abroad and foreign tourists were allowed to take both in and out of the country $10,000 or the equivalent thereof in other convertible currencies. For amounts above the l im i t, border points must be no t if ied in writing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Swaziland is the lilangeni (plural emalangeni). Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The lilangeni is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Ca- nadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar and for the ECU. The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the PTA (Kenya, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the PTA clearinghouse. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Swaziland is part of the CMA; no restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance with the terms and conditions applied in that market. The CBS, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transac- tions. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of up to E 500 are allowed. Exports of up to one-half of the applicable travel entitlement are allowed. 810 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 811 On imports Domestic currency Exports of up to E 500 are allowed; however, no control applies to the residents of CMA countries. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Approval to open these accounts is rarely granted. No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such invest- ments as may be approved by the CBS. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses entitle the holders to buy the foreign exchange required to make import payments. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Swaziland is a member of the SACU with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Af- rica, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs un ion. Imports from South Africa, inc lud ing goods originating outside the customs union, do not require licenses. Imports from countries outside the customs un- ion require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payment procedures. Swaziland applies the customs tariff system of SACU on imports from outside the cus- toms un ion. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 SWAZILAND State import monopo ly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Documentat ion requirements Contract notes are requ ired. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to members of the customs area, licenses are used ma in ly for tax levy purposes. n.a. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not nor- mally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to established l im i ts is delegated to authorized dealers. Payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage costs, interest, commissions, travel, medical treatment, study abroad, sub- scriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, family maintenance and alimony, and the use of credit cards abroad, as well as remittances of profits and dividends are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Administrative expenses Prior approval Interest payments Prior approval Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. The basic exchange allowance for business and holiday travel to neighboring countries other than those in the CMA is E 1,000 a day, not to exceed E 20,000 a calendar year, for an adult. The allowance for business and holiday visits to all other countries is E 60,000 for an adult and E 20,000 for a child. Residents traveling to the member coun- tries of the PTA must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA. The l im it is E 4,000. Travel allowances for students s tudy ing in non-CMA countries du r ing vacation periods were increased to E 10,000 from E 6,000 for single students, and to E 20,000 from E 12,000 for married students, a calendar year. Study allowances for students in non- CMA countries were increased to E 5,000 a month for single students and E 10,000 a month for married students, from E 4,000 and E 8,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 813 Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits The limit is E 10,000 an applicant a year. The limit is E 20,000 a case. The l im it varies from one-third up to one-half of the gross mon th ly income, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Yes. n.a. n.a. The l im it for alimony payments is E 3,500 a month, and the beneficiary must be a non- resident. To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All inward capital transfers requ ire the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, prof- its, and other income. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Balances in blocked accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such in- vestments as may be approved by the CBS. Purchase abroad by residents Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on the ir merits. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 SWAZILAND Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is not allowed. Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Yes. No. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad without prior approval. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. The requirement that commercial banks invest 95% of their domestic liabilities in do- mestic assets was abolished on May 1, 1996. Open foreign exchange position limits Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. No. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Changes During 1996 June 1. Allowances for business and holiday travel to neighboring countries other than those in the CMA were increased to E 1,000 a day, not to exceed E 20,000 a calendar year for an adult from E 900 a day, not to exceed E 12,000 a calendar year. The allow- ance for business and holiday visits to all other countries was changed to E 60,000 an adult and E 20,000 a child from E 25,000 an adult and E 12,500 a child. June 1. Travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation periods were increased to E 10,000 from E 6,000 for single students, and to E 20,000 from E 12,000 for married students a calendar year. June 1. Study allowances for students in non-CMA countries were increased to E 5,000 a month for single students and E 10,000 a month for married students, from E 4,000 and E 8,000, respectively. May L The m in imum local asset requirement, which had required commercial banks to invest 95% of their domestic liabilities in domestic assets, was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Swedish krona is determined on the basis of supp ly and demand. No. No. Yes. The Sveriges Riksbank, the central bank, and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Sweden notified the IMF on August 7, 1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions with regard to payments and transfers in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were imposed; these restrictions were extended in 1994 to areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces. Financial transactions w i th Iraq are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990) and other relevant resolutions. Certain restrictions were im- posed on L ibya and Angola (UN Security Resolutions No. 748 (1992) and No. 864 (1993)). Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. 815 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 16 Held domestically Held abroad SWEDEN Yes. Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Yes. E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, including per- sons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports on most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than countries of the EFT A or countries that are parties to the EEA, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Certain goods (such as fireworks, gloves, bicycles, brushes, etc.) from China are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. Imports from Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. Import restrictions apply to certain cate- gories of food as well as narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive materials, and others. As a result of Sweden's membership in the EU, as of January 1, 1995, the importation of textiles and clothing from more than 50 countries has been subject to restrictions or licensing for surveillance purposes. Agricultural and fishery products have also been subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel products from Russia, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan are also subject to restrictions. Certain imports from China (shoes, porce- lain, toys, etc.) are subject to restrictions. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs duty. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses Exports to Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 817 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these paymen ts No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments The restriction applies only to shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment in fishing and civil aviation. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. No. No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign positions (spot, forward, options) in ind iv idual foreign currencies and on the total net position in all currencies. The l im it for each foreign currency and for the total net position is equivalent to 10% of a bank's capital base, unless the bank is recognized as a market maker, in which case the l im it is equivalent to 15% of its capital base. A l im it also exists on a bank's total net position calculated as the sum of all liability positions. This l im it is equal to 30% of the bank's capital base and 30% for recognized market makers. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Same provisions as for banks exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. No. Certain restrictions have been imposed in respect of Iraq and Libya. On the basis of UN sanctions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 818 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 819 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import controls apply only for defense-sensitive products. Open general licenses Licenses are required mostly for agricultural products. Import taxes and/or tar iffs No. State import monopoly The importation of alcohol, butter, and wheat grain is a partial state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The system is operated in part with the assistance of semiofficial or private organiza- tions. Exports of weapons, dual-use goods for the production of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction are restricted (approval is required). No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SWITZERLAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments No. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Controls on der ivat ives and other in s trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are un- restricted. In case of any disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a permit requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents require approval by the canton in which the property is situ- ated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal government. Prov is ions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions No. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors For insurance companies, the overall l im it is 30% if invested in bonds denominated in Swiss francs and 20% if invested in bonds denominated in foreign currencies. For l ife insurance the overall l im it is 30% with limits for equities, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5% of the total portfolio, respectively. L im i ts (max.) on por tfo l io invested abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The exchange rate system consists of 5 official rates and 2 unoff ic ial rates. The official rates are (1) the official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1 applies to the repayment of loans and interests arising from bilateral payments agreements; (2) the budget accounting rate, introduced on January 2, 1996, applies to public sector exports of petroleum, all gov- ernment imports (including essential subsidized commodities and invisibles), and re- payment of loans and interest not related to bilateral payments agreements; (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 43.5/44 per $1 applies to all public and private capital inflows, the 25% of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75% of export proceeds retained by private sector exporters that is not used to fi- nance their own or others' imports; to travel allowances; to tourism and medical ex- penses; to student allowances; to remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange; to all public sector enterprises' for- eign exchange transactions; to earnings of staff of UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; and to domestic expenses of foreign oil companies; (4) the pro- motion rate of LS 20.22 per $1, which is used only for payments of allowances to stu- dents who started overseas study before January 1, 1991; and (5) the "government fee rate" (LS 42.95/43.00 per $1), which applies to a number of fees, including those on transit and port services, and for customs valuation of some imports. The unofficial rates are (1) the free market rate, which stood at LS 50.9 per $1 on December 31, 1996, and (2) the "export proceeds" rate in which a market-determined rate applies to goods that may be imported only with foreign exchange earned through exports. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to import goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in this market. In December 1996, the exchange rate in this market stood at LS 55 per $1. The official rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar at LS 11.20/11.25 per $1. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The Exchange Office prescribes the currencies that can be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Pre- scription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. With few exceptions, non-Syrians v is i t ing the Syrian Arab Repub l ic are required to settle their b i l ls in foreign exchange. There is an agreement with the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran. 821 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 822 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency There is an agreement with Russia and Sri Lanka. n.a. n.a. n.a. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade (MOEFT) determines policy with regard to imports and exports and issues import licenses. The Exchange Office issues exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions. Temporary imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are subject to licensing. Syrian banknotes may not be exported. However, travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Nonresidents, are permitted to bring unlimited amounts of Syrian currency without declaration. Foreign currency Nonresidents are permitted to bring up to $5,000 without declaration. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Residents were permitted to open foreign exchange accounts on September 26, 1996. Deposits may not be transferred to other residents and deposits in the form of banknotes may only be withdrawn in that form, unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, and other similar noncommercial purposes. Depos- its for a term of 90 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Residents not involved in export activities and wishing to open transferable foreign currency accounts are required to present written evidence that they have sources of income from abroad. Held abroad n.a. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the CBS for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payment conventions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 823 Approval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with the proceeds in foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and with other receipts in foreign currencies; they may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Imports and Import Payments The foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon submission of documentation of the ir import requirements. When foreign exchange is not made available, private imports must be financed with the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency depos- its maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, or foreign exchange pur- chased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the Commercial Bank of Syria (ComBS) at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. A number of imports may only be imported using foreign exchange generated through exports. Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements n.a. n.a. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit A non-interest-bearing advance deposit is required for pub l ic sector imports for an amount equal to 100% of the value of the imports. For several categories of goods, an advance import deposit equal to 100% of the value of the import, plus a 3% fee, is required. n.a. n.a. Private importers are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the ComBS. Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged upon the issuance of an im- port license. Positive list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import inc lude certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. Imports must come directly from the country of origin, but the MOEFT has the authority to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free-zone value added of at least 40%. Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. n.a. n.a. An import surcharge of 2% is charged on all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 824 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC different exchange rates (11.25, 23, and 43), according to the categories of goods, while import tariffs range up to 200%. All previous special levies on imports have been re- placed by a unified import surcharge ranging from 6% to 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopo ly Many basic commodities (such as paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain private sector importers. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Exporters are required to repatriate and surrender the proceeds to the ComBS w i th in 60 days of the date of shipment to Lebanon, w i th in 4 months of the date of export ship- ment to other Arab countries, and within 6 months of the date of shipment to any other country. The public sector enterprises may retain 100% of their export proceeds in spe- cial foreign currency accounts. In the case of fruits and vegetables, pub l ic and private sector exporters may convert 100% of the proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. F inanc ing requirements The ComBS may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products. Documentation requirements Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and their derivatives are made by the gov- ernment organizations dealing in cereals and cotton. Petroleum products are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Yes. n.a. Exports of cotton are subject to a 12.5% tax applied to the value of the exports (f.o.b.), less the cost of transportation within the Syrian Arab Republic. Exports of other agricul- tural commodities (processed foods and, most importantly, textiles) were abolished. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 825 n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Remittances must be authorized by the Exchange Office upon proof of payment of in- come tax. Profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the new investment law can be repatriated freely. Yes. n.a. n.a. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this amount, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon), and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance, but may take w i th them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian banknotes. For children 10 years and younger, the allowances are 50% of the above amounts. For travel to countries with which payments arrangements are maintained, 50% of the travel allocation must be handled through the clearing account concerned (30% for business travelers). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to this tax. Workers on sec- ondments to a foreign country may take with them the entire amount of the allocation on producing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad; otherwise, they may take with them only foreign exchange equivalent to 25% of the above- mentioned allocations. n.a. Yes. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. n.a. n.a. The allowance for education is subject to prior approval from the Ministry of Higher Education. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Up to 60% of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50% of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected with foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. The limit is LS 250 for each transfer, and is effected upon presentation of proof of need. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official rate and those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. All Syrian employees working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50- $700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equivalent funds are surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and convert a m in imum of 25% of each year's earnings received in foreign exchange at the rate in neighboring countries. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments All capital transfers to and from the Syrian Arab Republic take place at the rate in neighboring countries. Exports of capital require the approval of the Exchange Office. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 827 On capital market securities There is no market in medium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Republic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to sup- plement their capital base. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. The only instruments available in the Syrian Arab Republic are investment bonds issued by the Popular Credit Bank as agent of the government. The bonds, which carry an in- terest rate of 9% a year, have 10-year maturity but have a short-term effective holding period as they are redeemable after 3 to 6 months. They may only be purchased by non- bank Syrian residents and by the Popular Credit Bank itself. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no collective investment institution in the Syrian Arab Republic, Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. The Syrian Arab Republic provides special facilities for the investment of funds of im- migrants and of nationals of Arab states, including a 7-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Projects with m in imum fixed assets of LS 10 m i l l ion approved by the government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including exemption from customs duties of imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed companies with at least 25% pub- lic participation are exempted from all taxes for 7 years and private companies are ex- empted for 5 years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional 2 years if the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign cur- rency accounts to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75% of foreign currency exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guaran- tee agreements with France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after 5 years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after 6 months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents and foreign nationals may acquire immovable property only after present- ing evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equiva- lent of the price of property at the authorized local bank. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. Yes. There is an annual credit plan. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangements Changes During 1996 January 2. A new budget accounting rate was introduced. The CBS and the ComBS were allowed to buy public sector foreign currency receipts from exports of crude oil and petroleum products at the rate of LS 22.95 per $1 and to sell foreign currency for the import of petroleum products, most government imports of goods and services, in- cluding essential subsidized commodities, and debt service payments not related to bi- lateral payments agreements at the rate of LS 23 per $1. January 8. The ComBS was allowed to buy foreign currency from grants at the rate in neighboring countries. September 26. The neighboring countries' rate was devalued from LS 42/43 per $1 to LS 43.5/44 per $1. Resident accounts September 26. Residents were permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at the ComBS with no questions asked as to the source of the deposit. The deposits may not be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 829 transferred to other residents, and if made in the form of banknotes, may only be with- drawn as banknotes unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspa- per subscriptions, and other similar noncommercial purposes. January 8. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs were allowed to exchange all their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the rate in neighboring countries. April 16. Exporters were required to repatriate and surrender the proceeds to the CBS within 60 days of the date of shipment to Lebanon, within 4 months of the date of ship- ment to other Arab countries, and within 6 months of the date of shipment to any other country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik ruble. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Buying and selling exchange rates of the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) are set on auctions held at the Tajik Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (TICEX) in Dushanbe. The interbank and retail markets transact at freely determined rates, but these rates are generally based on, and close to, the TICEX rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in Tajik rubles. Residents and nonresidents may use foreign ex- change for domestic transactions, except for special cases as defined by the authorities. Commercial transactions with nonresidents must be conducted via correspondent ac- counts maintained either by authorized commercial banks or by the NBT. The NBT has correspondent accounts with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU, but these accounts are effectively inoperative. There are inoperative agreements with the CIS countries. n.a. n.a. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade is prohibited, except for aluminum trade. However, in practice, it still takes place, including bartering as part of debt deals negotiated by the government. Adm in is t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The NBT (1) acts as nonexclusive agent for the Republic of Tajikistan in the admini- stration of foreign exchange controls; (2) issues licenses to commercial banks to conduct banking operations and foreign currency operations; (3) is exclusively responsible for the supervision and regulation of financial institutions; (4) manages official foreign exchange reserves; and (5) formulates basic foreign exchange policy. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) registers foreign investors for inward direct investment. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Importation and exportation of foreign currency banknotes and Tajik ruble banknotes are freely permitted, subject only to declaration of amounts over $500. - 830 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 831 On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted under the Law on Foreign Currency Control, but they are prohibited under the Monetary Law. In practice, however, these accounts may be opened with prior authorization from the NBT. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses No. No. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear materi- als is prohibited. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. n.a. Import taxes and/or tar iffs A un iform 10% import tariff is imposed on all imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 832 TAJIKISTAN Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The requirement became effective on March 1, 1996. Surrender requirements The surrender requirement was abolished on February 24, 1996. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds may be either held by exporters in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks or sold in the interbank market. F inanc ing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements For exports of cotton, a 100% advance payment and approval are required. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. Customs duties on exports were abolished on March 1, 1996. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents No. No. No. Yes. n.a. Capital Transactions Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the MOF and NET approval are required. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 833 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to 90 days maturity. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to 180 days maturity. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to 180 days maturity. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to 180 days maturity. For loans over 180 days, NBT approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to 180 days maturity. For loans over 180 days, NBT approval is required. Controls on direct investment Foreign investors are required to register with the MOF. Outward direct investment NBT approval is required. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Individual and overall net positions must not exceed 5% and 20%, respectively, of un- impaired capital at the end of each banking day. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Imports and import payments March 1. A un iform 10% import duty was introduced. Changes During 1996 Exports and export proceeds February 24. Export duties, export licenses, and surrender requirements were abolished, and a repatriation requirement was imposed, effective March 1, 1996. February 24. Restrictions related to prepayment, tax clearance, and other documentary requirements were introduced for exports of cotton, and the monopoly on exports of cotton was l if ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the Tanzania shilling is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by transitory factors. The official exchange rate is based on the interbank market rate and remains w i th in a 2% band around the current day's market rate. The official exchange rate is used for accounting, taxation, and settlement of government obligations. During the first half of 1996, only a few foreign exchange bureaus that met new capital requirements were allowed to participate in the interbank market. As of July 1, 1996, all bureaus were prohibited from participating in the market. No. No. Authorized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an agreement with Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the PTA. There are agreements with Kenya and Uganda. The Minister of Finance (MOF) has delegated authority to administer exchange control, including in Zanzibar, to customs and the BOT. The BOT delegates authority to make payments abroad to all licensed banks. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. n.a. No. 834 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 835 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Travelers may take out of the country up to the equivalent of $100. Nonresident travelers may take out of the country foreign currency notes and traveler's checks of any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought into Tanzania. Domestic currency Returning travelers may bring in up to T Sh 1,000 in banknotes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Nonresident accounts are maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tan- zania; by firms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by foreign diplomatic missions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania. The balances of nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the BOT. There are 6 subcategories of nonresident accounts: external, shipping/airline, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspecified. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. The release of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 requires an import declaration form. Domiciliation requirements n.a. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Imports of goods exceeding $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. n.a. Certain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 836 TANZANIA Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports. There are 4 rates: 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40%. A m in imum rate of 5% is granted by the MOF for imports considered to be in the public interest. Low tariffs are also charged on imports of machinery. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as we ll as to religious, educational, and welfare institutions. Discretionary fu ll or partial exemptions may be allowed by the MOF if the imports are deemed to be in the pub l ic interest. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports from the mainland must be repatriated within 2 months of the date of exportation unless justification for nonrepatriation can be made. Proceeds from exports of traditional goods from Zanzibar must be repatriated. Surrender requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses for exportation from the mainland are required for only a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Yes. A tax of 2% is levied on traditional exports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, study abroad, subscriptions and member- ship fees, consulting and legal fees, or on the use of credit cards abroad. The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Medical costs Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Commercial banks and certain other institutions have the authority to approve remit- tances abroad of up to one-third of the salary, throughout the period of employment, of foreigners temporarily working in Tanzania under contract and having a firm commit- ment to leaving the country. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Surrender requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Capital Transactions 837 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transfers to all countries are subject to approval by commercial banks. All trans- fers of foreign currency funds from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require specific approval from the BOT. Similarly, transfers of funds from nonresidents to residents require BOT approval. On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Bonds/shares issued abroad can be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired with externally generated funds. These purchases have to be reported to the BOT. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval from the BOT. Credits to residents from nonresidents are sub- ject to external debt management regulations. For deferred payments not exceeding 365 days, authorized dealers may give approval subject to guidelines of terms of such payments issued by the BOT. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments require BOT approval. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment All foreign direct investment must be approved by the Investment Promotion Center; some areas are reserved for investment by the pub l ic sector, and certain other areas are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be repatriated, p lus authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes, based on the delegated authority from the BOT. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require BOT approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to external debt-management regulations. Otherwise, banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to operate credit l ines w i th correspondents. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 20% of core capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 838 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements TANZANIA Changes During 1996 July 15. Tanzania accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. January 1. Foreign exchange bureaus not meeting new capital requirements were no longer permitted to maintain accounts with domestic banks and thereby prohibited from providing trade finance. They were also prohibited from participating in the interbank foreign exchange market. July 1. All foreign exchange bureaus were prohibited from participating in the interbank market. Bureaus' activities were limited to money-changing transactions for travel pur- poses only. Nonresident accounts January 1. Restrictions on nonresident accounts were removed. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The requirement on delays in repatriation of proceeds was removed and re- placed by a requirement that reasonable efforts to repatriate be made. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January L All limits on the purchase of foreign exchange for invisibles were replaced by automatic sale for all bona fide requests. The limit on the amount of domestic cur- rency that can be taken out of the country was raised. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers January L Receipts from invisibles were no longer required to be sold to an authorized dealer. Capital transactions July L Commercial banks were permitted to have a foreign currency asset-liability mis- match of up to 20% of core capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Thailand is the baht. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of an undisclosed, weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's ma jor trading partners. No. No. Forward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions must be related to under ly- ing trade and f inanc ial transactions. The forward premium in the baht-U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest rate differentials. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) on behalf of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) administers exchange controls, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited, unless a license has been obtained from the MOF or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or p la t inum ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bu l l ion are prohibited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. 839 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 840 THAILAND Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted, and no approval is required if funds originate from abroad and the total outstanding balances in all accounts do not exceed $5 m i l l ion for a jur id ical person and $500,000 for a natural person. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required if deposits are made with funds of domestic origin. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted; approval is not required if funds originate from abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted; approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are bor- rowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inan c ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose value exceeds B 500,000 when submitting import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, do- nated goods, and samples. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Most commodities may be freely imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Milk producers are required to purchase locally produced milk in some quantity when they import skimmed m i lk into Thailand. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on certain commodities, and surcharges are levied on imports that compete with the output of promoted domestic firms. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 841 State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days from the date of exportation. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand w i th in 15 days of receipt, except for proceeds used to service external obligations. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a foreign exchange transaction form for transactions exceeding B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and textile prod- ucts are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to higher ad valorem or specific duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions of more than $5,000. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and international organizations are exempted from this requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions The sale or issue of securities is under the jur isd ic t ion of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Under the securities law, the same rules and regulations apply to both capital market securities (those with a maturity over 1 year) and short-term money market securities (those debt securities with maturity of not more than 1 year). Foreign issuers must comply w i th the same rules and regulations as local issuers. Under those regulations, any companies w ish ing to issue securities to the pub l ic need to be approved by the SEC and f i le the disclosure documents with the SEC for pub l ic access. Foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of the paid-up registered capital of locally incorporated banks, finance companies, credit finance companies, and asset ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 THAILAND management companies. The combined shareholdings of an individual and his/her re- lated family members must not exceed 5% of a bank's paid-up registered capital and 10% of that of finance companies and credit foncier companies. Foreign equity partici- pation is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The potential issuer must submit an application for approval to the SEC, and permission will be granted if the issuer can prove that the issue w i ll only be traded overseas, both in the primary or secondary market. There are no restrictions associated with the transfer of proceeds on funds to service debt abroad. All debt-service payments can be made freely. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval from the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. However, finance companies are allowed to issue negotiable certificate of deposit (NCDs) and bills of exchange in foreign currency with more than a 1-year maturity for sale to the public abroad or for sale to institutions that are authorized to operate in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds associated with these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these instruments can be made freely. There are no restrictions on the purchase of securities offered by local fund management companies. The same regulations apply as for money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The launching of funds requires approval from the SEC, both locally and abroad, and only local fund management companies are allowed to issue this instrument. In addition, funds managed by local firms w i ll be deemed to have Thai nationality regardless of the nationality of the majority of the unit holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. A securities company is not permitted to purchase or sell futures or options on securities either in its own name or for customers, or to engage in any business that is not a li- censed securities business, unless the SEC issues a notification or grants an approval allowing such transactions or business. The issuance of warrants or equity-related instruments and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria is based on the soundness of the under ly ing stock. There is no discriminatory practice against nonresi- dents for participating in the financial market. The purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require approval by the EOT. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred payments, bilateral netting, or open accounts. Most payments are settled w i th in 180 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits subject to the rule of net foreign exchange position. Residents may only grant loans to their affiliated companies if they own at least 25% of total shares in the company and up to $10 m i l l ion a year w i thout approval from the EOT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 843 To residents from nonresidents There is no restriction on these credits. Repayment of financial credits to nonresidents can be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay to nonresidents in foreign currency. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments exceeding $10 m i l l ion a year require approval from the BOT. Foreign capital may be brought into the country w i thout restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand w i th in 15 days of receipt. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment All proceeds can be repatriated without restriction upon submission of supporting evidence. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases, except those of condominiums, are not allowed with money that origi- nates from abroad. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Government financial institutions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not allowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency without restriction. Commercial lending to particular industries denominated in foreign currencies can be partially (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fu l ly repaid as exchange rate risk is heightened. Overall, commercial banks are required to hold liquid assets of at least 7% of their de- posit base. The l iqu id assets comprise at least 2% in nonremunerated balance at the BOT, at most 2.5% in vau lt cash, and the rest in government and other eligible securi- ties. Finance companies are also required to hold a 7% l iqu id asset ratio: 0.5% in non- remunerated balances at the BOT, and the rest in the form of deposits at banks located in Thailand, lending on demand to banks in Thailand, and e l ig ib le securities. For the non- resident bant accounts w i th a maturity of less than 1 year, commercial banks, finance companies, and finance and security companies are required to maintain 7% of the ir deposits at the BOT. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company ( inc lud ing pub l ic companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of their capital fund. Banks can seek approval to hold shares above the 10% limit in the following cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that op- erate as financial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) compa- nies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are benef ic ial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it imposed is between -15% (for a negative balance) and 20% (for a positive balance). Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Mu tual funds and prov ident funds have to invest their total portfolio in the domestic market. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the fund can be invested in equity and debenture issued by jur id ical persons incorporated under the ASEAN Agreement or the United Na t ion's Economic and Social Commission ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 844 THAILAND for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) Agreement to specifically operate reinsurance busi- ness; and (2) the funds may be invested in equity issued by nonresident juridical persons other than specified in (1) with approval from the authorities, and by using the surplus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. Other controls imposed by securities Under the Securities Act, there are no restrictions for nonresidents to have equity par- laws ticipation in Thai security companies. However, National Executive Decree No. 281 imposes a 50% limit on nonresident's equity participation in any company. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai securities market in the form of representative offices whose roles are limited to providing research material for their parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter into jo int partnership with Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. Changes During 1996 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of'December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buy ing and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Ex- change rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 2.5%o on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with the pr ior authorization of the Minis- try of Economy and Finance (MEF). Permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than 3 months for essential or strategic goods and 1 month for all other goods. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Togo is l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the WACH. Exchange control is administered by the MEF, which also supervises the fo l low ing: borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Import and exports of gold from or to any other coun try requ ire prior authorization from the MEF. 845 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 TOGO Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresidents is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknote opera- tions and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside that account area. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins - (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within 8 days. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Only diamond-processing companies are free to open these accounts; all others must obtain a special authorization from the MEF. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are subject to authorization from the MEF. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes without prior authorization. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domiciliation) and submitting supporting docu- ments, but not earlier than 8 days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 847 Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled at an authorized bank. Letters of credit Required for goods outside the EU, Operations Account countries, and ACP countries. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Positive list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be proh ib i ted du r ing the period when local produc t ion is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). The fo l low ing taxes are imposed on all imports: a statistical tax of 3%; fiscal import duties of 5%, 10%, and 20%; a value-added tax of 7% or 18%. W i th the exception of the value-added tax, wh ich is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imports inc lu- sive of fiscal import duties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, inc lud ing the Operations Account area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 1 month of the due date to authorized inter- mediaries; authorized diamond-purchasing officers, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Phosphate rock is subject to a specific export tax. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Yes. n.a. All export transactions over CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MEF authorization. Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. Yes. No. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. There are no controls on payments for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage, adm in is tra t ive expenses, commissions, or interest, nor on remittances of profits and dividends. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 848 Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits TOGO Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion in banknotes other than CFA banknotes; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to 1 month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 m i l l ion (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances). Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the MEF or, by delegation, the BCEAO. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im i ts are the same as for tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The l im i ts are the same as for tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national work ing in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in 3 months of the pay period. Prior approval Yes. Pensions Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Family maintenance/alimony Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The limits are the same as for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of serv- ices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in 1 month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Capital Transactions 849 Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Capital movements between Togo and France, Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval from the MEF and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Exempt from authorization are trans- actions with shares that are identical to, or can be substituted for, securities whose issu- ing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Togo has already been authorized. On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the MEF. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, wh ich are subject to prior declaration; (2) borrowing by indus t r ial firms to finance operations abroad or by international merchanting and export-import firms to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the MEF, if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lend ing abroad is subject to prior authorization from the MEF. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 850 TOGO Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of investment must be reported to the MEF and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws MEF authorization is required. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June L Togo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tonga is the pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the pa'anga is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross for- eign exchange l iab i l i t ies must not exceed T$l m i l l ion. Provision of forward exchange cover for squash exporters requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control No. No. No. Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the MOF. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Licenses are required for all imports, but they are issued freely. 851 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 852 TONGA Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs n.a. n.a. n.a. Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers, but the restriction is not enforced. The importation of certain items is restricted for cul- tural or env ironmen tal reasons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Import tariffs of up to 35% are levied on an ad valorem basis. Imports of a few items (petroleum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific tariffs or ad valorem rates of up to 300%. The tariff rates on motor vehicles is 45%. Imports by the reigning monarch, by the government and the pub l ic sector, by diplomatic missions, under certain technical assistance agreements, and imports of personal effects are ex- empt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, which qua l ify for concessional rates, and imports of government and quasi-government organizations, which are exempt. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 12 months, but this regulation is not enforced. Licenses are requ ired for all exports we igh ing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted liberally except for squash. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are sub ject to prior approval, indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Commercial banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments. Sh ipp ing and airline agencies may remit income earned from activities in Tonga upon producing income statements relating to local business activities that have been submit- ted to their respective head offices. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket ins trumen ts On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 853 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents n.a. The acquisition of foreign financial assets is, in principle, prohibited, but in practice the restriction is not strictly enforced because the repatriation requirement is not enforced. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Investments require a license, which is usually given if the transaction is considered beneficial to Tongan exports. Licenses are required for direct foreign investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are accepted if there is a local partner, and simple proj- ects that can be undertaken by locals are likely to be rejected. Investment in certain sec- tors, inc lud ing wholesale and retail, transportation and some tourism-related activities, and all resource-based activities such as f ish ing are prohibited. However, jo int ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. No time period has been specified for the approval process, which can be quite lengthy, but once licensed, foreign projects in manufacturing and tourism are fu l ly eligible for incentives. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 TONGA Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The limit is T$l million. Commercial banks must surrender all of their foreign ex- change, apart from small working balances to the central bank. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, w i th the pub l ic w i thout l im i ta t ion. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan- ish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Regional arrangements Trinidad and Tobago is a member of CARICOM. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) acting under the authority of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). No. No. Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between residents must be an authorized bank. Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and are subject to specific export licenses, wh ich are normally issued only to monetary authorities. Domestic currency For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. 855 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 856 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonresidents may br ing in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in notes up to the equivalent of US$5,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Conver t ib le into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Duty-free licenses are granted to local concessionary manufacturers for imports of cer- ta in inpu ts for manu fac tu r ing. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar i f fs All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and m in ing materials are sub ject to specific regulations. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are tightly controlled. All goods, unless excepted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under OGL arrangements. On January 1, 1996, the customs duty rates on most goods were reduced to a range of 5% to 25%. The rate on agricultural produce is 40%. Duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range from 20% to 25%. The duty rates on motor vehicles range from 20% to 30%. On January 1, 1997, the max imum rate for most goods was reduced to 20%. All goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from duties, as are imports of some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials. Local enterprises produc ing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Tourism Industrial Development Company, Ltd. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 857 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are effected principally by state companies. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange after prov id ing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. No. No. No. Ind iv idual licenses are required for some foodstuffs, firearms and explosives, animals, gold, petroleum and petroleum products, and certain products not produced locally. Export licenses for all other commodities are granted under OGLs. General licenses may also be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; resi- dents and companies of the other 2 countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Ho ld ing shares in local companies is subject to comp l iance w i th the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act (1990). Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ho ld ing interest in real estate is subject to compliance w i th the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act (1990). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements A liquid asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange position limits A l iqu id asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Insurance companies are required to hold at least 80% of their investment assets locally. The Insurance Act (1980) imposes other controls. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. Custom duties were reduced to a range between 5% and 25% in compliance with the reduction schedule of the GET of the CARICOM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of May 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tun is ia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in which commercial banks, including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident custom- ers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates, but there is no l im it on the spread between the buy ing and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) intervenes in the market and publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the fo l low ing day, at the latest. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the inter- bank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign com- mercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward rates are freely negotiated by the transactor of the authorized counterpart bank. Forward cover may be established for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Trading on 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month foreign currency options in French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange. Official cover of forward operations The CBT extends exchange rate guarantees to certain off ic ia l ly guaranteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between Tunisia and other countries may be in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign ac- counts. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be ef- fected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respec- t ive central banks. Payment arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the CBT and the Ministry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the author- ized banks, whereas the MOT administers foreign trade control, which issues import and export authorization for products when required. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 859 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 TUNISIA Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBT has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Im- ports and exports of gold in other forms require jo int approval from the CBT and the MOT. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident travelers wishing to reexport the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts exceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign currencies they are importing upon their entry into Tunisia. There is no ceiling on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be reexported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evi- dence of a claim or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also required if the amount of foreign exchange from dinar reconversion exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 derived from the surrender of foreign currencies physically imported from abroad. On imports Domestic currency Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. (1) Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) any resident natural person, (ii) any Tunisian jur id ical person, and (iii) any foreign jur id ical person in Tuni- sia w i th the foreign currency assets in connection with their activities. The accounts may be debited for (i) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened, and (ii) any other transaction with general or specific authorization. Balances may also be placed on the foreign exchange market. (2) Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) natural persons of Tuni- sian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad, (ii) resident natural persons of Tunisian nationality or Tunisian juridical persons for their nontrans- ferable assets legitimately acquired abroad, (iii) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia, (iv) foreign jur id ical persons with branches in Tunisia, and (v) Tu- nisian diplomats and c iv il servants stationed abroad. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (i) foreign exchange sold on the interbank mar- ket, ( i i) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspr ing to undertake foreign travel, ( i i i) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars, and (iv) any payments abroad, inc lud ing those for the acqu is i t ion of movable or real estate property located abroad or ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. No approval is required, but a declaration of ho ld ing is requested. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 861 Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency (1) Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by resident natural or juridical persons with resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the CBT in the authorization to open such accounts. Special accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by the same natural and jur id ical persons that may open foreign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be cred- ited with the dinar proceeds from sales on the interbank market of funds legitimately acquired abroad, but not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia. They may be debited for (i) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (ii) the acquisition of foreign currencies either for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring, or for making payments abroad, particularly for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad, or ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities; and (iii) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. (2) Special export earnings accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by Tunisian or foreign natural persons residing in Tunisia who earn profits from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident company earning profits from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be freely credited with (i) 5% of the export earnings realized by the account holder or received from com- panies in which he or she is a shareholder, (ii) proceeds from sales on the interbank market of foreign exchange representing income or revenue from assets acquired abroad by debiting the account, and ( i i i) interest on balances in the account. They may be freely debited for (i) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (ii) purchases on the interbank market of foreign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or offspring; and (iii) payments in connection w i th a current operation or to acquire rights and interests abroad not invo lv ing real property. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign accounts in convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible currencies on the in- terbank market; banknotes must be declared to customs; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the CBT through the debiting of a foreign account in convertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest payable by the authorized inter- mediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) the amount of cashed checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the CBT, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia (irrespective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to resi- dents w i th the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) transfers to other foreign accounts. (1) Domestic nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of foreigners res id ing temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the CBT w i th the fo l low ing: (i) transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country, (ii) revenue of any k ind accruing in Tun is ia to the ho lder of the account (in particular the nontransferable part of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tunisia), ( i i i) l i q u id assets from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 TUNISIA estates opened in Tunisia, (iv) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal nonresident account, and (v) transfers from another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the ac- count holder. These accounts may be debited for (i) support of the account holder and his or her fam- ily in Tunisia, (ii) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia, (iii) lending to residents, and (iv) transfers to another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. (2) Special dinar accounts may be freely opened by foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the CBT. Such enterprises are authorized to open for each con- tract a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest ac- cruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the CBT. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. (3) Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a nonresident natural person of for- eign nationality or by a nonresident juridical person. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the CBT, with the pro- ceeds of sales on the stock exchange, or the contractual or advance redemption of trans- ferable Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court, or of rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from an- other capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from 1 or more capital ac- counts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the subsequent year. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the exception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Natural and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. (4) Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresidents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the CBT, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term de- bentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, pay- ments to the Tunisian government or public institutions, or payment of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of l iv ing expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 863 withdrawals in any calendar year from 1 or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the tr ip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized inter- mediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Natural and ju r id ical persons of French or Italian nationality ho ld ing suspense accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Foreign accounts in convertible dinars may be opened freely by all nonresidents regard- less of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the dinar proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the interbank market; banknotes must be declared to customs; (2) foreign currency proceeds remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) proceeds from authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (4) proceeds from the conversion of the amount of cashed checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in foreign currency and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder; (5) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (6) interest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these accounts w i thout authoriza- tion from the CBT, granted either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia, and (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for delivery to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. An import certificate is required; importers must receive a customs code number to ob- tain it. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are free except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and cultural heritage, and are effected by an im- port certificate upon presentation of a contract domiciled with an authorized intermedi- ary. Goods not liberalized may be given import authorization by the MOT. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment that are paid from sources outside Tunisia may be effected without foreign trade formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclusively en- gaged in exporting goods or services and companies established in a free trade zone may import freely, w i thout foreign trade formalities, any goods required for their produc t ion process, subject only to customs declaration. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a list of wh ich is drawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical import controls. Goods not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cu l tural heritage are included in a list issued by decree. Cars remain temporarily subject to im- port licenses. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for fu ll or partial exemption from import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 864 TUNISIA Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Nonresident compa- nies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incentives Code as well as nonresident international trading companies and nonresident enterprises constituted in a free trade zone are not required to repatriate or surrender the ir export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit up to 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds to their professional accounts. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports must be domiciled w i th in 8 days of the date of shipment. Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. Most exports are free, and certain goods may be exported with an authorization issued by the MOT. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, unloading and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, pensions, interest, or on remittances of profits and dividends. The annual limits for tourist travel are D 500 an adult and D 250 a child under the age of 10. The business allowance for exporters is 10% of export proceeds for the current year, w i th an annual l im it of D 80,000. The annual limit for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on turnover, and the annual limit for busi- ness travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on turn- over declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for promoters of new projects is up to D 5,000 and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test The l im it of D 750 for travel abroad for reasons of health may be exceeded if the pa- t ien t's condition requires several trips abroad du r ing the same year. Medical costs Quantitative limits The annual allowance for travel abroad for reasons of health is D 750. Persons accom- pany ing patients may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The annual settlement and the mon th ly educational expense allowances for a student are D 1,000 and D 600, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 865 Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Contractually employed foreign nationals and foreign experts employed by the pub l ic sector may transfer up to 50% of their earnings; for technical assistants, limits on trans- fers are specified in their contracts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds The facilities associated with professional accounts in foreign exchange apply to pro- ceeds from services to nonresidents. Foreign exchange deposited in professional accounts must be used in accordance with the rules governing the operation of accounts of this type. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Stock may be freely acquired with foreign exchange transferred from abroad by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stock w i th voting rights and for acquisitions that result in foreign ownership exceeding 50% of capital shares listed in the stock exchange and for unlisted shares, the approval of the High Investment Commission (HIC) is required. The subscription by nonresident foreigners of debt se- curities issued by the government or by resident companies is subject to approval by the CBT. Nonresidents may freely transfer net real proceeds from the sale of shares of companies established in Tunisia that were purchased with foreign exchange transferred from abroad for an investment made in accordance with the legislation in force. The issue by nonresidents of debentures in foreign exchange is subject to authorization. The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resident exporters may transfer D 20,000 to D 100,000 annually to finance equity par- ticipation in companies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign cur- rency or convertible dinars, or special export earnings accounts may purchase securities abroad by deb i t ing these accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 866 TUNISIA On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may freely acquire shares of Tunisian mutual funds with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is required if the acquisition raises the foreign ownership to more than 50% of the mutual fund 's capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may freely transfer net real proceeds from sales of Tunisian mutual fund shares acquired with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These credits require approval from the CBT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency financial loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 m i l l ion and D 3 million, respectively; all other loans require approval from the CBT. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee their obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guar- antees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppli- ers. The issue and establishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by residents are not subject to approval. At the request, and with the counterguarantee, of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection with business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. To transfer capital abroad, residents must obtain approval from the CBT; however, to support their export activities, exporters may freely transfer amounts ranging from D 20,000 to D 100,000 a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and op- erating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity participation, and D 10,000 to D 50,000 to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 867 Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreigners may invest freely in most economic sectors. However, the participation of foreigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export activities re- quires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investments carried out legitimately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require approval from the CBT. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Resident financial institutions may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresi- dents up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l ion and D 3 m i l l ion, respectively. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks may freely open "correspondent" accounts with foreign banks of the ir choice. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The approval of the CBT is required, except for investment, commercial, and operating loans granted by resident banks to nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia. Lending locally in foreign exchange Resident banks may freely extend credit to finance import and export operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident accounts July 5. A special export earning account in convertible dinars was created. Imports and import payments June JO. Agricultural products were removed from the negative list. Changes During 1996 Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements May 9. The interbank market was opened to forward exchange operations; and the spread between the buy ing and selling exchange rate on the interbank spot market was liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of March 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescr ipt ion of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements The exchange rate for the Turkish lira is market determined. Commercial banks, special financial institutions, authorized institutions, post, telephone, and telegraphic offices (PTT), and precious metal intermediary institutions are free to set their exchange rates according to market conditions. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transac- tions are to be reported daily to the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT). On each business day, the CBT announces an indicative exchange rate that is determined as the average of buy ing and selling rates of the 10 banks with the largest involvement in foreign ex- change trading. No. No. Banks and precious metal brokerage institutions may deal w i th forward transactions w i th in the framework of the open position limits determined by the CBT. Forward ex- change rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance w i th international practices. Banks may enter into swap transactions with the CBT w i th terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months; however, the CBT has not conducted forward transactions w i th banks since the first quarter of 1996. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain commercial transactions with the Czech Republic and Poland are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. There are agreements w i th the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, and the Slovak Repub l ic. Barter agreements and open accounts There are banking agreements with the Czech Repub l ic and Poland. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administer the exchange controls; the undersecretariat of the Treasury authorizes banks to engage in foreign exchange opera- tions, and regulates and supervises banks' open foreign exchange position limits to- gether with the CBT. Turkey no t if ied the Fund, on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq. Turkey no t if ied the Fund on August 5, 1992, that, in comp l iance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in 868 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 869 respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). However, effective May 2, 1996, restrictions that had been imposed on foreign trade, transfers of foreign exchange, and credit letters in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were abolished. Yes. No. Domestic purchases and sales in Turkey of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by precious metals intermediary ins t i tu t ions can only be conducted at the Istanbul Gold Exchange. The purchase and sale of precious metals, stones, and articles are free w i th in the country. Exports and imports of precious metals, stones, and articles are free. Unprocessed gold may be imported by the CBT and by precious metals intermediary institutions that are members of the Precious Metals Exchange w i thout being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the gold must be surrendered to the Istanbul Gold Exchange w i th in 3 days. Banks may open gold deposit accounts in the name of legal and real entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders may freely use balances on the ir accounts. W i th in the framework of the banking regulations, banks may extend gold credits to ju r id ical and natural persons involved in the jewe lry business, upon the physical de l iv- ery of the gold purchased by the ir institutions, and against the gold he ld in the gold deposit accounts. The buying and selling prices of gold are freely determined by banks. Passengers may bring into and take out of the country ornamental articles made from precious metals and stones of which the value does not exceed $15,000. The taking out of ornamental articles exceeding th is value is dependent on their declaration upon arri- val or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may freely take abroad up to the equ iva lent of $5,000. Travelers may freely take up to $5,000 or its equivalent out of the country. To take out more than th is amount, nonresidents must declare banknotes upon arrival, and residents must present a document confirming that the foreign banknotes were purchased for in- v is ib le transactions. Resident Accounts J u r i d i c al and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 TURKEY Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The import license requirement was abolished on December 31, 1995. The importation of goods prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition, is allowed only with a special permit. Old, used, reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the undersecretariat of the Treasury. But certain used goods that are not older than 5 years may be imported freely. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmonization of the import policy of Turkey with that of the EU. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopo ly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated within 180 days of the date of shipment. Exporters are allowed to use those proceeds for payments on imports and invisible transactions. Receipts must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of repatriation. If exchange receipts are surrendered w i th in 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30% of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Exporters may retain export proceeds abroad up to $50,000. Effective June 1996, banks, special financial institutions, and the post, telephone, and telegraphic offices are required to sell to the foreign currency notes market and the CBT 4% and 10%, respectively, of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports, invisible transactions, and gold accounts w i th in a period agreed with the CBT. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements A new export credit program was introduced on January 15, 1996, by the Turkish Ex- imbank whereby different interest rates (i.e., OECD commercial interest reference rates, government bond yields, and SDR basket rates) are applied to these loans, depending on the impor t ing country. Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 871 Exports are generally free, but for the exportation of a few goods, permission from authorized ins t i tu t ions is required in advance. Exportation of certain goods requ ires registration for purposes of information on the importing country, price, quantity, and the method of payment, etc. A few produc ts are subject to quotas. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export taxes on nuts, o l ive o i l, rye, and unprocessed leather are collected through the exchange system. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled w i th in 30 days. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Sales or issue of these ins trumen ts by nonresidents are subject to the permission of the Capital Market Board. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Sales by nonresidents ( inc lud ing investments, partnerships, and mu tual funds abroad) of all k inds of securities and other capital instruments through the banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to the capital legislation may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securities and instruments as well as the proceeds from their sale may be effected freely through banks and special finance institutions. Purchases and sales by residents of the securities traded in foreign financial markets are free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, special finance institutions, and intermediary ins t i tu t ions authorized according to the capital market legislation and that the transfer of the ir purchase va lue abroad is made through banks and special fi- nancial ins t i tu t ions. Yes. Yes. No. Residents may freely obtain credits from abroad provided that they channel such credits through the banks or special finance ins t i tu t ions. However, the maturity of prefinancing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 TURKEY Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements credits is 1 year. On J u ly 22, the Resource U t i l iza t ion Support Fund (RUSF) fee on loans to importers was re in troduced at 6%. Imports by exporters and importers for in- vestment purposes remain exempt. Credits with a maturity of over 1 year must be registered at the debt log maintained by the undersecretariat of the Treasury. On March 11, 1997, a RUSF fee of 6% was set for loans by residents other than banks. Residents may free ly export capital in cash up to $5 m i l l ion or its equ iva lent in other foreign currencies through banks or special f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and capital in k ind w i t h in the framework of the p rov is ions of the customs legislation, w i th the purpose of investment, incorpora t ing companies for commercial purposes, participating in an enter- prise, or open ing branches abroad. The permission to export capital in cash and/or in k ind exceeding $5 m i l l i on is given by the m in is try to which the undersecretariat of the Treasury is attached. Permission from the undersecretariat of the Treasury w i th in the framework of the En- couragement of Foreign Capital Law is required. In establishing partnership or jo int companies in the Turk ish private sector, foreign investors must bring at least $50,000 of capital. Proceeds may be transferred abroad, but must be reported to the CBT. Nonresidents can acquire real estate in Turkey for tourism, petroleum, and banking ac- t iv i t ies if approved by the Counc il of Ministers. The acquisition of real estate in villages of Turkey by nonresidents is prohibited. If nonresidents acquire real estate via inheri- tance in villages of Turkey, it must be l iqu ida ted. For nonresidents to acquire real estate exceeding 30 hectares in independent rural areas not belonging to a village, a decision of the Counc il of Ministers is requ ired. Nonresidents cannot acquire real estate in for- b idden m i l i tary and security areas. Credits obtained by banks from abroad are subject to a 4% tax, wh ich is earmarked for the RUSF. Resident banks and special f inance ins t i tu t ions can extend credits to nonresidents in fore ign exchange and in Turkish liras up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and the ir foreign exchange deposit accounts, prov ided that the amount of the credits is w i th in the l im i ts determined in the Bank ing Law. Reserve requirement ratios are set at 8% for deposits in local currency and at 11% for fore ign currency deposits. Wh i le d i f fe rent ratios are applied to domestic and foreign currency deposits, there is no difference between the ratios applied to the deposit ac- counts of nonresidents and residents. Domestic deposits and other domestic l iab i l i t ies are subject to a 6% l iqu id i ty ratio. For- eign deposits and other fore ign l iab i l i t ies are subject to a 3% l iqu id i ty ratio. The l iqu id assets must consist of government bonds, T-bills, and borrow ing ins t rumen ts issued by the Co l lec t ive Housing Fund and Privatization Adm in is tra t ion. Other domestic l iab i l i t ies and the exceeding part of the short or long position are subject to an 8% l iqu id i ty ratio and other foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies are subject to an 11% l iqu id i ty ratio. The amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Credit controls Investment regulations TURKEY 873 pertaining to these ratios is held in cash. There is no difference between the ratios ap- plied to the deposit accounts of nonresidents and residents. There are some restrictions for banks granting credits to natural and ju r id ical persons and for those connected with them. For banks, investment in real estate and in the companies that are not financial institu- tions is limited to a proportion of a bank's own funds. Banks may not engage in pur- chase and sale of commodities for commercial purposes, excluding, however, the trade of minted and ingot gold. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 50% of the capital base. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Only for investment trusts that invest the max imum of 25% of the ir capital and reserve funds on securities in the ir portfolios. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts May 2. Restrictions on foreign trade, transfers of foreign exchange, and letters of credit in respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were l i f ted. Changes During 1996 Resident accounts August 2. The limits for "super" foreign currency accounts, which may be denominated in deutsche mark and U.S. dollars, were reduced from DM 50,000 to DM 30,000 and $25,000 to $15,000, respectively. The terms of the accounts were also changed: in addi- tion to 3-year terms, 2-year terms can also be applied. November 7. Ind iv idua ls were permitted to open foreign currency deposit accounts against a letter of credit, and a super foreign currency account w i th the CBT. These accounts cannot be opened by ind iv idua ls under the age of 18 and those going abroad for tourism, commercial, or other reasons. Ind iv idu a ls who have permanently returned to Turkey can open these accounts against the over- the- l im it transfers sent to them by private or pub l ic social security ins t i tu t ions abroad. Imports and import payments January 1. An RUSF fee applied for credits obtained by banks from abroad was reduced from 6% to 4%. The fee on loans to importers was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds July 22. The RUSF fee on loans to importers was reintroduced at 6%. Imports by ex- porters and importers for investment purposes remain exempt. October 24. A special advance import deposit scheme was introduced, under wh ich Turkish citizens can import secondhand mach inery and used automobiles when they deposit DM 50,000 at the CBT for 1 year. January 15. A new export credit program was introduced by the Turk ish Ex imbank whereby d ifferent interest rates (i.e., OECD commercial interest reference rates, gov- ernment bond y ie lds, and SDR basket rates) are applied to these loans, depend ing on the importing country. May 7. Banks, special f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, and the post, telephone, and telegraphic offices were requ ired to sell to the foreign currency notes market and the CBT 4% and 10%, respectively, of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports, inv is ib le transac- tions, and gold accounts w i t h in a period agreed w i th the CBT. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers April 1. Obligatory payments to the Mass Housing Fund by Turkish citizens trave l ing abroad were abolished. Cap ital transact ions January 2. The ma tu r i ty restriction for keep ing government securities issued in or in- dexed to fo re ign currencies was l i f ted for the l i q u i d i ty requ iremen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 TURKEY July 22. A 4% tax, earmarked for the RUSF, was levied on credits obtained by banks from abroad. July 22. The reserve requirement ratios were set at 8% for domestic currency and at 11% for foreign currency deposits. Deposits and other liabilities in domestic currency were subject to a 6% liquidity ratio. Deposits and other liabilities in foreign currency were subject to a 3% liquidity ratio. These 2 ratios should be maintained in government bonds, T-bills, and borrowing instruments issued by the Collective Housing Fund and the Privatization Administration. August 2. Securities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies that have been issued directly by or under the guarantee of the undersecretariat of the Treasury or by the Privatization Administration in the domestic markets were subject to the liquidity and foreign exchange position ratios applied to the banks and special finance institutions. August 7. The share of foreign exchange indexed asset liabilities regarding the securities defined in the preceding paragraph in total foreign exchange asset/liabilities was in- creased from 50% to 100%. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions March 11. The RUSF fee was amended. A rate of 4% was set for loans obtained by banks and financial institutions from abroad, and a 6% fee was set for loans obtained by other residents from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of April 30, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkmenistan is the Turkmen manat. There are two exchange rates: (1) the official (non-cash) rate determined at a weekly auction in which commercial banks participate, and (2) the commercial bank cash rate determined by the banks w i th in guidelines given by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) and by parallel market rates. Prior to the auction, the CBT issues an indicative rate, and adjusts the auction rate tak- ing the bids into account. The auction and commercial bank cash rates are allowed to deviate substantially. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and a few other FSU countries are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich Turkmenistan has bilateral payments arrangements are effected in accordance with these agreements. Barter transactions, except gas exports, must take place through the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are made in convertible currencies. Payment arrangements Yes. Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements There is a bilateral arrangement w i th the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran. The bilateral agreement with Malaysia is inoperative. n.a. Trilateral agreements are ma in ta ined w i th Armenia and the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, and w i th Ukra ine and the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran. Barter agreements and open accounts There are barter trade agreements, pr imar i ly for gas exports, and there is an agreement w i th Kazakhstan for the export of electricity. Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The CBT, along w i th the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and the Tax Authority, depend ing on the type of operation involved, is empowered to issue ex- change control regulations. The use of official foreign exchange reserves is controlled by the president of Turkmenistan. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. 875 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 Private TURKMENISTAN Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Local and foreign banknotes may be freely exported and imported provided funds are declared on arrival and departure. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Residents may hold foreign exchange accounts with local commercial banks. These accounts may be opened if the holder possesses a certificate of registration issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER); the amount and currency of denomination of interest payable on these accounts is determined by the authorized bank. All external payments made using balances on these accounts must be approved by the CBT; however, cash withdrawals from the accounts in foreign currency may be made without the approval of the CBT. Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad for the duration of their residence abroad, with permission from the CBT. Prior approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of goods on the negative list (arms, narcotics, antiques) are prohibited for na- tional security reasons. An approval of the president or the Cabinet of Ministers (CM) is required to import these goods. Excise taxes are levied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewelry, and cars. Goods in transit are exempt. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements From January 2, 1996, to April 1, 1997, there was a 70% surrender requirement for ex- port earnings received by the oil and gas industry: 40% was to be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund (FERF) and 30% to the CBT for use in the auctions. Other public sector organizations had a 50% surrender requirement: 20% to the auctions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 877 and 30% to the FERF. All surrenders were made at the official exchange rate. Retained earnings could be exchanged at the auction rate or the cash rate. On April 1, 1997, the surrender requirements on state sector export earnings were uni- fied at 50%; surrenders are made at the auction rate. Retained earnings may be ex- changed at the auction or the cash rates. Joint ventures and private sector firms are not subject to the surrender requirement. Pri- vate sector foreign exchange earnings may be exchanged for Turkmen manat at the commercial bank cash rate. All exports require a special license. Quantitative and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw mate- rials to protect domestic supplies. Yes. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system A fee is collected at the rate of 0.01% of the value of the licensed product that is sold in convertible currencies; the fee on exports to the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU is 0.1% of the ruble value of the licensed product. The customs department charges an administration fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments require prior approval. Profit/dividends Quantitative limits After the payment of taxes, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in national or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Indicative \\mitsfbonafide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to commercial banks, except the retained portion in the case of enterprises. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to CBT approval. Nonresidents' share in stocks of a resident company is limited to 49%. Nonresidents can purchase only registered shares. Approval of the CM is required. Annual quotas apply. Purchase abroad by residents Subject to quota and licensing by the CM. Sale or issue abroad by residents Subject to quota and licensing by the CM. On money market instruments All transactions in those instruments are subject to a CM license and quota. On collective investment securities No regulations exist on these securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment There are no transactions in derivatives in Turkmenistan. A CBT license or approval is required for residents. Nonresidents need CBT approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 TURKMENISTAN Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Investments by juridical persons are permitted, in principle, in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain an authorization from the MFER; if the amount exceeds $500,000, the approval of the CM of Turkmenistan is required. Foreign participation in joint-stock companies is limited to 49%. Foreign investors have the right to recover investments within 6 months of liquidation. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A CBT license is required. Provided the license is granted, no controls apply to individ- ual transactions. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors A CBT and/or an MEF license is required, depending on the type of institutional investors. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition n.a. n.a. n.a. Other controls imposed by securities laws Institutional investors are required to meet minimum capital requirements. Responsibil- ity rests with the CM, the CBT, and/or the MEF, depending on the type of investors. Exchange arrangements January 1. The foreign exchange auction was introduced. Changes During 1996 January 2. Official and commercial exchange rates were unified at manat 2,400 per $1. April 10. Official and commercial exchange rates were reunified at manat 3,000 per $1. May 2. Regular foreign exchange auctions commenced. September 25. Access to the auction was disallowed for importers of consumer goods. Exports and export proceeds January 2. The surrender requirement was set at 70% for gas exports and at 50% for other exports; surrenders were to be made at the official rate. Exports and export proceeds April 1. A 50% surrender requirement is applied only to state enterprises. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Apr il 5, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda sh i l l ing. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the Uganda shilling is determined in the interbank foreign ex- change market. Certain transactions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. No. No. Authorized banks may deal in the forward exchange market with customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an unde r ly ing approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may impose a service charge of up to 1%. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, inc lud ing for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda sh i l l ings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Uganda maintains clearing arrangements w i th Bu rund i, Rwanda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Trade and payments agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Fo l low ing the East Afr ican Cooperation Agreement, the Ugandan, Kenyan, and Tanza- nian shillings are now freely convertible in the 3 countries. Excess holdings of Kenyan and/or Tanzanian sh i l l ings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in U.S. dollars. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in U.S. dollars w i th the member countries of the COMESA through the COMESA clearinghouse; residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments dur ing a transaction period of 2 calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. The BOU administers exchange controls on behalf of the Minister of Finance (MOF), but has delegated a broad range of responsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Trade (MCT), wh ich has powers to proh ib it imports and exports. International security restrictions No. 879 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 880 Payment arrears O f f ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade UGANDA Yes. Yes. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the M in is try of Mines. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- ver t ib le into foreign currency E l i g i b i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id i c al persons Na tural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts n.a. Yes. Resident exporters of goods who are earning commissions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange may operate foreign exchange accounts w i th com- mercial banks in Uganda. Payments made from these accounts are subject to the same regulations as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureaus. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Accounts held by diplomats may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents of Uganda and w i th transfers from other external accounts or any other external source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes UGANDA 881 Importers should submit a form to obtain foreign exchange. Most imports require licenses. Foreign exchange sales to various ministries and depart- ments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Importers are provided w i th a renewable certificate, which is valid for 6 months and which permits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The cer- tificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The importation of pornographic materials, beer, and soft drinks is prohibited. Imports of firearms and ammun i t ion require special permission. There is a time-specific ban on importation of certain commodities. Customs duties are applied at 1 of 4 rates of up to 30%. Duties for intermediate goods, raw materials, and machinery range up to 8%. No. No. Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require certificates from the MCT, which are valid for 6 months and are renewable; they may be restricted to ensure domestic supply. Exports of coffee are subject to a quota under the International Coffee Organization (ICO). The stabilization tax on coffee exports was abolished in June 1996. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Proceeds may be sold in the foreign exchange interbank market. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital transfers to all countries require ind iv idual exchange control approval. On capital market securities All imports and exports of securities requ ire approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonres iden ts of Ugandan securities, pro- v ided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 882 UGANDA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are prohibited. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited, except when permission of the MOF is granted. Sale or issue abroad by residents The transfer of proceeds associated with the sale or issue of securities abroad by resi- dents of Uganda and the transfer of funds required to service these security issues re- quire the approval of the MOF. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited, unless permitted by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited, unless permitted by the MOF. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Purchase abroad by residents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Outward direct investment Requires prior approval from the BOU. Inward direct investment Investments are permitted with or w i thout government participation. To secure a guaran- tee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code (1991). In normal circumstances, approval is given freely. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Requires prior approval from the BOU. Purchase abroad by residents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Purchase locally by nonresidents With the exception of agricultural land, nonresidents can purchase local real estate. Sale locally by nonresidents Requires prior approval from the BOU. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Commercial banks must seek BOU approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks can lend to nonresidents but are required to report to the BOU. Banks are free to purchase securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to lend locally up to 80% of their total foreign liabilities in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 883 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks must hold 20% of foreign liabilities in reserve. Credit controls Commercial banks are subject to a limit only on lending in foreign currency. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to have an open position equivalent to 20% of core capital. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exports and export proceeds June 12. The stabilization tax on coffee exports was abolished. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23. 1996. Currency The currency of Ukraine is the hryvnia. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating There are 2 foreign exchange markets. The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) conducts daily foreign exchange auctions (the Birzha auctions), in which the official exchange rate of the hryvnia is determined. The official exchange rate applies to transactions of the NBU with the government. The interbank rate may not differ by more than 0.6% from the official rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all countries, other than those with which Ukraine has a bilateral payment agreement and which are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements, are settled in convertible currencies. Nonbarter trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU is now settled mainly in convertible currencies, especially the U.S. dollar. Yes. There are arrangements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. Regional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter continues to be a major form of trade for Ukrainian companies in their transac- tions both with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU and with non-FSU countries. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The NBU administers exchange controls. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) n.a. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on payments and the provision of financial services to Iraq are maintained. Payment arrears Private n.a. 884 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 885 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are required to obtain a license from the Ministry of Finance to deal in pre- cious stones and metals. Controls on external trade Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may export up to the equivalent of 10 times the m in imum wage. The l im it for nonresidents is 5 times the m in imum wage. Resident natural persons may export $1,000 in cash and $1,000 in traveler's checks without permission, and $4,000 in cash and $5,000 in traveler's checks with permission from an authorized bank. The total limit is set at $10,000 a person a trip. Nonresident natural persons may export $1,000 in cash and $1,000 in traveler's checks without permission, and $1,000 in cash and $5,000 in traveler's checks with permission, for a total l im it of $7,000. The exportation of currency by residents and nonresidents in ex- cess of established norms requires a license from the NBU. Resident and nonresident natural persons are permitted to import domestic currency up to the amounts declared in a customs declaration upon exit from Ukraine. Juridical per- sons must obtain a license from the NBU to import domestic currency. Resident and nonresident natural persons are permitted to import up to $50,000 in cash; for amounts in excess of this limit, permission from the NBU is required. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Certain conditions apply to these accounts. These accounts are permitted, but a license from the NBU is required, except when the account is opened during a temporary stay abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are e l ig ib le. Residents of Kazakhstan, Russia, and Uzbekistan must submit a certified copy of the NBU approval to open a settlement account in foreign currency to the bank where the account is to be opened. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign com- pany, firm, or international organization established w i thout the status of a legal entity, through which a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her entrepreneurial activities in Ukra ine. P accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds of transactions from any eco- nom ic activity, i n c l u d i ng payments for current international transactions. "N" accounts may be opened by a representative office of a nonresident legal entity, an ins t i tu t ion, or a person who represents its interests in Ukra ine and does not engage in en t rep reneu r ial activities in the territory of Ukra ine. The holders of N accounts are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 886 UKRAINE Convertible into foreign currency regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as residents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited with funds by selling foreign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlement associated solely with the maintenance of the representative office, or with funds received by embassies and con- sulates for providing consular services. All N account holders may purchase foreign exchange on the interbank currency market to transfer funds abroad, including interest accrued on the balance in the account. P account holders may convert and transfer to their parent company or head office abroad proceeds of current international transactions, provided the balances in question derive from transactions connected with their economic activity. N account holders other than foreign diplomatic, consular, commercial, and other official missions and their offices may not purchase foreign exchange on the interbank market to transfer funds abroad from their N account. Nonresident natural persons may convert and trans- fer abroad funds from settlement accounts in hryvnias. Prior approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. Import contracts are required for banks to bid in foreign exchange auctions. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. n.a. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Nontariff measures are limited to those for national safety and environmental reasons. Yes. n.a. There are 3 customs duty rates with a trade-weighted average rate of about 5%. The first category (preferred duty rate) applies to goods from countries with which Ukraine has a free trade agreement, imports from developing countries, and imports from countries that have a preferential agreement with Ukraine. The second category (concessional duty rate) applies to imports from countries that have entered into MFN agreements with Ukraine. The third category applies to imports from other sources. A value-added tax of 20% is levied on most imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters must repatriate all foreign exchange proceeds through domestic commercial banks w i th in 90 days of shipment. Within 5 days of repatriation, 50% of proceeds must be surrendered, all of which may be sold at the auctions. Exports by foreign firms are exempt from the surrender requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas With quotas UKRAINE 887 n.a. Goods subject to voluntary export restraints or other international agreements and those falling under the "special export regime"—coal, precious metal scrap, and alcoholic spirits —are also subject to export quotas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, freely provided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, it is required that sales for the export market be undertaken through the agricultural commodity exchange. Access to the commodity exchange is restricted to those farmers who have f u l f i l l ed their obligations under the prepaid portion of the state contract. Export contract preregistration is limited to goods subject to voluntary export restraints or an t idump ing actions. Export taxes Taxes are applied to exports of animals and skins. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no controls on payments for freight and insurance, un load ing and storage, administrative expenses, commissions, subscriptions and membership fees, consulting and legal fees, foreign workers' wages, pensions, or interest, as well as on remittances of profits and d iv idends and on the use of credit cards abroad. The limit for tourists is $8,000 a person a trip and for business travel 7$ 10,000 a trip, not to exceed $300 a day. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds, except those of a few organizations with international operations such as the national airlines, are subject to repatriation requirements. Ind iv idua ls who provide services to nonresidents and exporters who need to service external debt obligations of over a 90-day maturity approved by the NBU are exempted from the surrender requirement. Intermediary firms in the foreign trade sector are re- quired to surrender 50% of their profits in foreign exchange, rather than 50% of foreign exchange revenues. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents An NBU license is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 888 UKRAINE Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Yes. n.a. On collective investment securities An individual NBU license is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents NBU approval is required. To residents from nonresidents External loans with maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the NBU. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Only authorized commercial banks have the right to extend financial credits to nonresi- dent juridical persons. To residents from nonresidents These credits must be licensed by or registered with the NBU. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments require an individual NBU license. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are required in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermedia- tion activities require a license from the Ministry of Finance, and investments in the banking sector require a license from the NBU. In addition, concessions from the Council of Ministers are required for investments in the mining sector; such concessions may be for a maximum of 49 years. Foreign investment in Ukraine must be made in convertible currency or in kind. The Russian ruble is not regarded as convertible currency for this purpose. Tax relief is granted to enterprises established with foreign funds. The transfer of proceeds, after payment of taxes due, is guaranteed. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement September 23. Ukraine accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Changes During 1996 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. dirham. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Limited flexibility with respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the U.A.E. dirham is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1 within margins of ±7.25%. The U.A.E. dirham has maintained a stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, since November 1980. No. No. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for peri- ods of 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 m i l l ion outstanding for 1-month and 3-month swaps and $10 million outstanding for 1-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 m i l l ion a day on purchases by each bank for 1-month and 3-month swaps. This facility is designed to provide temporary dirham liquidity to commercial banks. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription requirements, but settlements with Israel are prohibited. No. No. No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. 889 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 890 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- Yes. vertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons These accounts may be opened by banks and by trade, financial, and industrial compa- nies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local institutions in foreign countries; and by embassies and diplomatic agencies. These accounts may be opened by U.A.E. citizens working abroad and by foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates who have no residency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Only licensed parties can enter the import trade. Importers can import only the com- modities specified in their licenses. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inan c ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, security, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Most imports are subject to a customs duty of 4% of the c.i.f. value. Imports of alcohol and tobacco are subject to higher rates. Imports originating from members of the GCC are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 891 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment At least 70% of the shares of U.A.E. corporations must be held by U.A.E. nationals or organizations. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. At least 51% of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy areas; and (2) up to 100% of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Furthermore, nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in whole- sale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the UAECB equal to 30% of the ir placements with, or lend ing to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of 1 year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 892 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and britannias are legal tender, but do not circulate. The U.K. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. (The United Kingdom suspended intervention obliga- tions with respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992.) No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. The United Kingdom notified the IMF on September 22, 1994, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 883 and 841 (1993), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Libya and Haiti. Sanctions against the latter were lifted in October 1994. Restrictions against Iraq, as reported to the IMF on August 13, 1990, continue to be enforced. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and the Serbian-held areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina were lifted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074 with immediate effect on the adoption of the resolution by the UN Security Council on October 1, 1996. In the case of the former, paragraph 5 of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 (1995) concerning, inter alia, funds frozen pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 757 (1992) and 820 (1993) remains in force. In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. 893 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 894 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been is- sued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of National Heritage. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas No. No. No. Yes. Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an open general import license. The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are main- tained under various EU bilateral agreements with third countries that are not members of the MFA, certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 895 bilateral agreements, autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel prod- ucts from Kazakhstan, EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and EU-wide quotas on 7 categories of goods origi- nating in China. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few articles may be imported under open ind iv idual licenses (i.e., w i thout l im it as to quantity or value). Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal wel- fare, national heritage, and in accordance with international agreements. Yes. No. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry may proh ib it a proposed transfer of control of an important U.K. manu fac tu r ing undertaking to a nonresident where the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 896 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts transfer is considered contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom or a substantial part of it. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensation. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to par- liamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. No. No. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency re- sources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35% noninterest-bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. No. The Department of the Treasury administers economic sanction programs involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Iraq, Libya, foreign terrorists who disrupt the Middle East peace process, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, the M idd le East Terrorism Regulations, and the Narcotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations, respec- tively. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above coun- tries and groups of persons. Sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended in 1996, although funds blocked prior to May 10, 1996, and December 27, 1995, respectively, remain blocked un t il released in accordance with applicable law and without prejudice to the claims of the successor states to the former Yugoslavia. The Treasury Department also restricts certain offshore transactions invo lv ing strategic merchandise to certain countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations, and donative transfers to the United States, or that pose a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States by the governments of Syria and Sudan, under the Terrorist List Government Sanctions Regulations. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade No controls are imposed, except for the countries and groups of persons to wh ich inter- national security restrictions apply. 897 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 UNITED STATES Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts blocked are those of Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of korea, Iraq, Libya, Middle East terrorists, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia; and residual accounts are blocked under sanctions against Serbia, Montenegro, and the Bosnian Serbs. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of goods and services that originate in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya are prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Treasury. n.a. Import quotas are in effect for certain agricultural products, including cotton of speci- fied staple lengths, some cotton waste and products, certain dairy products, peanuts, and various products containing sugar. Import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cot- ton products, butter, certain other dairy products, and specific products containing sugar, are on a country-of-origin basis. Quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set forth in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Most dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. Bilateral import quota agreements on textiles and clothing exist with numerous countries, which are to be phased out over 10 years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 899 The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile prod- ucts into the WTO regime over a 10-year transition period, and the gradual phasing out of quantitative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. "Integrated products" have been removed from the scope of the ATC's special safeguard mechanism, and any applicable quotas have been eliminated. Integration is taking place in 4 stages: in 1995, 16% of the vo lume of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year 4 and year 7, an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, w i ll be integrated; and after year 10, all remaining products w i ll be integrated. With regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States w i ll be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberalization each year of the transition period. Import tariffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of beverages and tobacco, textiles and clothing, and leather and footwear. As a result of the Uruguay Round, all tariff lines are bound. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of goods and services to the countries on the negative list are prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Treasury Department, or, in the cases of Cuba and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, the Department of Commerce. Ammun i t ion may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on instruments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of NATO, Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on reexports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 900 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents UNITED STATES Capital Transactions Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresi- dents. The restriction applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be restricted by laws on inward direct investment and establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mu tual funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to (1) nonresident issu- ers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues exemption by nonresident issuers. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. The restriction applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Johnson Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons w i th in the Un i ted States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The Act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. Foreign acquisitions that threaten to impair national security may be suspended or pro- hibited. Investments invo lv ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or invo lv ing Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, foreign terrorists who disrupt the Middle East peace process, significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, and certain foreign terrorist governments. The Omn ibus Trade Act (1988) contained a provision, the Exxon-Florio Amendment, au thor iz ing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and take- overs in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that wou ld threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, other than the Inter- national Emergency Powers Act and the Exxon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of agricultural land by foreign nationals or by corporations in which foreign owners have an interest of at least 10% or substantial control must be reported to the Department of Agr icu l ture. Certain states in the United States impose var ious restric- t ions on foreign nationals' purchases of land w i th in their borders. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 901 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 1996 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 16. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended, effective retroactively on December 27, 1995. Resident accounts August 22. Donative transfers or transfers that pose a risk of fur ther ing terrorist acts in the United States from the governments of Syria and Sudan were proh ib i ted. May 10. Sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax The exchange rate for the Uruguayan peso is determined in the exchange market, where the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) intervenes to ensure that the rate remains within a 7% band. The exchange rate band is depreciated monthly at a predetermined rate; the rate was lowered to 1.8% from 2% in April 1996 and to 1.4% in September 1996. The CBU announces its intervention buying and selling rates daily. Purchases of foreign exchange by pub l ic sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, with the exception of those by the CBU and official banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. An arrangement with the Islamic Republic of Iran was effective until January 1997. Bilateral arrangements with Cuba are inoperative. Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded recip- rocal credit arrangements (i.e., Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela) may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, finance houses, ex- change houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Exchange houses must be authorized by the CBU. Internat ional security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. 902 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 903 Controls on external trade Residents may freely import and export gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for indus tr ial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, im- portation, and trading of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs du r ing that period. Under MERCOSUR, a common external tariff (CET) exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. It consists of 11 rates of up to 20%. Regionally produced capi- tal and telecommunications goods are subject to tariffs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR are permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET un t il the year 2001, at wh ich t ime they are to converge to the CET. In addition, for Uruguay tar- iffs on capital goods, telecommunications, buses, and trucks w i ll not converge un t il 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries were generally eliminated, with certain exceptions. In U ruguay 's case, exemptions on pharmaceuticals, plastics, automobile parts, textiles, and dairy products may remain in place through 1999. Duties on wheat, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 904 URUGUAY tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices," which provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on these goods depending on the difference between the m in imum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Occasionally, and for special reasons (for example, stock position, protection, or sani- tary considerations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Export taxes Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to a 5% tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Uruguayan security market legislation allows for autoregulation in the stock markets, under the supervision of the CBU. The establishments that are regulated are financial intermediaries, insurance companies, and pension fund managers, which have their own regime. In the pub l ic sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own bylaws, and the central gov- ernment and departmental governments are covered by their own procedures, which are more restrictive. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no regulations on derivative operations on the security market, as these in- struments, even for commodities, do not exist in Uruguay. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 905 Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits There is a minimum mandatory reserve requirement (10%) for local currency and an- other for foreign currency, except for 30- to 180-day deposits, on which the local cur- rency reserve requirement is 4% and the foreign currency reserve requirement is 10%. These reserve requirements are for currency holdings and notes, and demand deposits at the CBU in their respective currencies. Nonresident deposits placed with nonresidents are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Also, when establishing such reserves, the deposit at the CBU should be in an amount of not less than 50% of the m in imum mandatory reserve requirement. There is a m in imum interest-bearing manda- tory reserve requirement of 10% in local currency on total deposits and other obligations covered by the non-interest-bearing reserve requirement regime. This reserve require- ment can be established by a deposit at the CBU. There is also an 11.5% mandatory holding in dollar-denominated treasury notes on foreign currency deposits and liabilities under the reserve requirement regime, excluding those of nonresidents applying to placements with nonresidents. There is a ceiling on local and foreign currency-holding positions of 150% of the book value of equity less administrative fixed assets. There is also a ceiling on the asset or liability position of foreign-currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., fu tu re contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book value equity (i.e., fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges) less administrative fixed assets. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements April 1. The mon th ly rate of depreciation of the exchange rate band was lowered to 1.8% from 2%. Capital transactions September 1. The mon th ly rate of depreciation of the exchange rate band was lowered to 1.4% from 1.8%. May 30. A new legal framework regulating the public offering of private securities was approved. September 27. A law regulating investment funds was approved. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran ceased. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uzbekistan is the Uzbek sum. There is an official exchange rate, established by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU), a rate freely established by authorized banks incorporating commissions (the spread (i.e., the commission) between the official rate and the exchange rate of author- ized banks is currently set at 12%), and a cash rate resulting from cash transactions by natural persons at exchange bureaus. On January 1, 1997, the interbank rate became the rate that is applied to purchases of foreign exchange for payments of imports of most goods and other current transactions. Since January 1, 1997, the official exchange rate of the sum vis-a-vis foreign currencies has been determined weekly taking into account current rates and transaction volumes on the currency exchange and in the over-the-counter market as well as changes in the most important macroeconomic indicators. Exchange rates for currencies that are not traded are determined from cross rates in the international market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payment agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Under agreements with Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine, trade in local currency is permitted. Transactions with other countries are settled in convertible currencies. Uzbekistan maintains agreements with Belarus, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Moldova, Russia, and Ukraine. Agreements with Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Malaysia are inoperative. The CBU is responsible for foreign exchange regulations and the supervision of author- ized banks. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) is responsible for negotiating trade agreements with nontraditional trading partners, as well as those agreements denominated in hard currency with traditional trading partners. It is also responsible for implementing foreign trade agreements and external trade policy through the issuance of export licenses and quotas. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for approving foreign direct investment in the form of jo int ventures. Internat ional security restrictions No. 906 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 907 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency With the exception of jewelry and collectibles, trade in gold is prohibited. However, jo int ventures operating in the precious metals sector are free to export a portion of the ir output, corresponding to the share of profits of the foreign participant. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewelry or personal effects. Nonresident ind iv idua ls taking out foreign currency in excess of $2,000 of what they declared upon entering the country, with no receipts to show that the money was legally converted or how the money was spent, are subject to a 30% fee on the undocumented amount. Residents are limited to exporting $500 unless permission is granted by the CBU or the National Bank for Foreign Economic Activity. Legal entities are not al- lowed to export foreign banknotes. Ind iv idua ls importing more than $5,000 in banknotes are subject to a fee of 2% of the amount of foreign exchange imported. Legal entities are not allowed to import foreign banknotes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. The CBU may approve accounts abroad on a case-by-case basis. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but evidence must be furnished that the amounts invo lved were law fu l ly obtained. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a preregistered contract before they can purchase foreign exchange. Blocked accounts De facto, local currency accounts of importers may be blocked (with the consent of the latter) by the banks wh i le awaiting conversion. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 908 UZBEKISTAN F in an c ing requ irements for imports No. Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar i f fs There is a central bank licensing system whereby a $100 registration fee is paid by pre- vious license holders and a $2,000 fee is paid by new importers for access to the foreign exchange auction to purchase foreign exchange for payment of consumer goods imports and related services. As of November 1, 1996, all import contracts are subject to prereg- istration w i th the MFER. Imports of medicines, weapons, precious metals, uran ium and other radioactive sub- stances, foreign mo t ion pictures and videos, and research data require import licenses from the MFER. The importation of publications, manuscripts, video and audio equipment, and photo- graphs aimed at underm in ing state and social order are prohibited. Un t il end-March 1996, import tariffs ranged from 5% to 100% on 91 products, with 73 items being levied rates of 5%, 10%, or 20%. A 100% rate applies to used motor vehicles. On April 1, 1996, a new tariff schedule was introduced that reduced to 56 the number of items subject to tariffs ranging from 5% to 100% and to 47 the items subject to ta r i f fs rang ing from 5% to 20%. On November 1, 1996, new import duties established rates of 5% to 100% on 91 commodities or groups of commodities; additionally, a 1% duty was established on all imports not covered by another import duty. Effective September 23, 1996, excise taxes of 20% to 35% were imposed on 6 categories of con- sumer goods imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Repatr iat ion requ irements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inan c ing requirements Documen ta t ion requ irements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Proceeds in convertible currencies are subject to a 30% requirement. Receipts from transactions w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU were sub- ject to a 15% requ irement un t il January 1, 1997, when requirements were un i f ied at 30%. No. Yes. Yes. Exports of medicines, weapons, precious metals, uran ium and other radioactive sub- stances, foreign motion pictures and videos, and research data require licenses from the MFER. A system of automatic licensing exists for cotton exports. Exportation of nonferrous metals, crude oil, gas condensate, gasoline, diesel fue l, lint and cotton fiber, and ferrous metals is subject to export licensing in the amount of es- tablished quotas. Export tar iffs range from 5% to 100% on 73 products, with 66 items in the 10% to 50% range. On Ap r il 1, 1996, a new schedule of export tariffs established rates of 5% to 100% for 83 commodities or groups of commodities, the majority of which (59 items) are in the 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, or 30% categories. The 100% rate applies only to ex- ports of art objects and antiques. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 909 Other export taxes An excise tax of 50% is imposed on exports of 11 electronic consumer goods, and a tax of 25% is imposed on reexports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds earned by ju r id ical entities are subject to the same requirements as those appli- cable to proceeds from exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Enterprises may establish jo int ventures as foreign direct investment with the approval of the Ministry of Justice. Foreign equity capital participation is allowed up to 100%. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad No. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 UZBEKISTAN Maintenance of accounts abroad Permission from the CBU is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Since December 1996, banks have been allowed to make loans in foreign currencies, subject to the limit on the foreign currency open position. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Exchange arrangements Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1996 April 1. A new schedule of import tariffs established rates of 5% to 100% for 56 com- modities or groups of commodities, the majority of which (47 items) are in the 5%, 10%, and 20% categories. The 100% rate applies solely to used vehicles. September 23. Excise taxes ranging from 20% to 35% were imposed on 6 categories of consumer goods imports. November 1. All import contracts were subject to preregistration with the MFER, and registration was required to obtain foreign exchange. November I. New import duties established rates of 5% to 100% on 91 commodities or groups of commodities; additionally, a 1% duty was established on all imports not cov- ered by another import duty. April 1. A new schedule of export tariffs established rates of 5% to 100% for 83 com- modities or groups of commodities, the majority of which (59 items) are in the 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, or 30% categories. The 100% rate applies only to the exportation of art objects and antiques (with the authorization of the Ministry for Cultural Affairs). December 13. Banks were allowed to lend locally in foreign currencies to enterprises w i th foreign participation for project financing, subject to the limit on the foreign cur- rency open position. Changes During 1997 January 1. The interbank rate became the rate applied to purchases of foreign exchange for payments of imports of most goods and for other current transactions. January 1. Surrender requirements were unified at 30% for all receipts, inc lud ing those from exports in convertible currencies and those to the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other FSU countries. Proceeds should be surrendered to authorized banks (on the over- the-counter market). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vanuatu is the vatu. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged The external value of the vatu is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions- weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies of Vanua tu 's major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks U.S. dollars only. However, it also deals in pounds sterling, French francs, Australian dollars, deutsche mark, New Zealand dollars, and Japanese yen w i th other customers. The RBV quotes rates daily for the vatu against the above currencies. Buying and sell- ing rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted twice a day w i th in margins ranging between 0.25% and 0.30% around the m idd le rate. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks prov ide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or b u l l i o n) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 911 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 912 VANUATU Nonresident Accounts E l i g ib i l i ty to ho ld accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for imports Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for impor ts Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of frozen chicken, chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammun i t ion, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products —rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products. Positive list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values, but alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and petroleum products are subject to specific duties. Higher duty rates apply to goods that compete with domestically produced goods. A customs service charge of 5% is applied to most imports, based on du ty- inc lus ive values. Under an agreement amended in December 1995, certain products (frozen beef, canned tuna, tea, coffee, yogurt, cheese and curd, wooden fu rn i tu re, kava, jam, f ru it je l l ies, Portland cement, matches, fiberglass boats, toilet paper, iron and steel nails, and plastic shopping bags) may be shipped duty free between Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, and Papua New Guinea. Goods imported by the government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores, goods imported for processing and reexporta- tion, and goods imported for investment projects are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. The exportation of logs has been banned for env ironmen tal reasons. Exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother-of- pearl, aqua r ium fish, and crustaceans, as we ll as coconut crops for conservation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 9 13 purposes, are subject to authorization. Exports of copra, cocoa, and kava are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB); however, exports of kava can be undertaken by individuals subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts having a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis. Specific duties are levied on exports of timber products and a few other items. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of January 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1976. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. On April 22, 1996, the existing exchange rates—a legal parallel market rate for trading on local securities exchanges of foreign-currency-denominated government bonds trad- ing on the secondary market ("Brady bonds"), and an exchange rate applicable to tour- ism, and credit card transactions temporarily introduced in October 1995—were unified. On July 8, 1996, an exchange rate band of ±7.5% around the central rate was introduced with an initial rate of Bs 470 per $1. During the remainder of 1996, the central rate was adjusted in line with the inflation target for the first quarter of 1996, i.e., 1.5% a month. On January 2, 1997, the central rate of the band of ±7.5% was set at Bs 472 per $1. During the rest of 1997, the central rate will be adjusted in line with the inflation target for 1997, i.e., 1.32% a month. The exchange rate is determined by supply and demand, but the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV) intervenes in the market. The CBV deter- mines the reference exchange rate daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Yes. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the CBV. The Exchange Administration Board (EAB) and the associated Technical Administra- tion Office were responsible for the administration of exchange transactions un t il April 22, 1996, when the EAB was closed with the elimination of exchange controls. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external debt. Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins is subject to prior authorization from the CBV. 914 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 9 15 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exports and imports of banknotes were subject to declaration to customs, before the e l im ina t ion of exchange controls. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Ju r id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports On Apr il 22, 1996, when exchange rates were unified under a managed floating system, all import requirements were abolished. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Un t il Ap r il 22, 1996, applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for all imports in excess of $5,000 were approved by the EAR. Letters of credit Letters of credit were required for importers using the LAIA facility until April 22, 1996. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Some imports are subject to licensing for environmental, health, or security reasons. Positive list Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense Ministry. Imports of non- military weapons must be authorized by the M in is try of Domestic Affairs. Some 24 tariff items, of which 7 are chemicals and about 17 are agro-industrial products, requ ire approval from the import office. Importation of used motor veh ic les is proh ib i ted, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. A very small number of agricultural products are subject to quantitative restrictions. There are 4 basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, wh ich are subject to a special regime under the Andean Pact. The common external tariff on motor vehicles is 35% for passenger cars, 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles (except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 25%), and 3% for vehicle components and parts manufac- tured in member countries. Specific duties apply to agricultural products and certain other products (e.g., mineral fue ls, oil, m ineral wax, d is t i l led products, and b i tum inous ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 VENEZUELA substances). The indus tr ial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Duty-free access is granted to imports from Colombia, Ecuador, and CARICOM countries under trade agreements. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Requ iremen ts were abolished on Ap r il 22, 1996. The state petroleum company (PDVSA) is required to surrender its export proceeds to the CBV. F inan c ing requirements Documen ta t ion requ irements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes For certain products, licenses are required. Yes. Exports of agricultural commodities (except those destined to Andean Pact countries) are entitled to a fiscal credit of 10% of f.o.b. value in the form of a negotiable bond used for tax payments that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. There is a duty drawback system for manufactured products. There is an export tax on hydrocarbons. Taxes collected through the exchange system Export proceeds of PDVSA, the state petroleum company, were subject to a surtax of 4% un t il the end of 1996. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Un t il April 22, 1996, when controls on these payments were eliminated, all transfers for inv is ib les had to be authorized by the EAR, except for purchases of foreign exchange for travel and remittances abroad, which were subject to annual limits. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requ irements Yes. Surrender requirements Requirements were abolished on Apr il 22, 1996. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket ins trumen ts On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Ex- change but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions must be authorized by the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV), taking into account the government's op in ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 917 Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization by the CNV is required. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Authorization by the CNV is required. There are no regulations concerning derivatives, options, and futures. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered with the SIEX after the fact, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commercial Code. The SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. Investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Local banks can make loans denominated in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange There are limits regulated by the CBV in relation to foreign exchange position limits. Reserve requirements Reserve requirements of 12% apply to all deposits. Investment regulations Commercial banks are not allowed to invest in stocks in excess of 20% of paid-in capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The net position cannot exceed 25% of banks' capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 1996 Exchange arrangements April 22. The exchange rates were un i f ied and exchange controls were eliminated. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 8. An exchange rate band of ±7.50% around the rate of Bs 470 per $1 was intro- duced. April 22. The Exchange Administration Board (EAB) and the associated Technical Administration Office, which were responsible for the administration of the exchange controls, were closed. Resident accounts April 22. Foreign exchange accounts were permitted to be held domestically. Imports and import payments April 22. All import requirements were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 918 VENEZUELA Exports and export proceeds April 22. Repatriation requirements, except for PDVSA, were abolished. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers December 31. The 4% surtax on PDVSA export proceeds was eliminated. April 22. Controls on these transactions were eliminated. Capital transactions April 22. Lending locally in foreign exchange was permitted. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangements January 2. The central rate of the band of ±7.5% was set at Bs 472 per $1. During the rest of 1997, the central rate w i ll be adjusted in line with the inflation target for 1997, i.e., 1.32% a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vietnam is the dong. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Trading in the interbank market must take place at exchange rates within ranges stipu- lated daily by the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Only the SBV, state-owned banks, such as the Bank of Investment and Development, joint-stock banks, joint-venture banks, and branches of foreign banks may participate in the exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements No. Clearing agreements There is an agreement with Cambodia. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the SBV. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. Controls on external trade Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The importation of gold by residents requires a license from the SBV. Resident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds in foreign exchange accounts at domestic commercial banks that are licensed to conduct foreign 919 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 920 VIETNAM Held domestically Held abroad exchange business. Limits on foreign exchange holdings in such accounts are set by the commercial banks applying rules set by the SBV. Deposits in excess of those limits must be sold to the commercial banks. Yes. Firms in the aviation, shipping, postal, and insurance sectors, as well as commercial banks, finance companies, and other firms permitted to open branches abroad, may be granted permission to deposit foreign currency receipts from invisible transactions in foreign accounts. Prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts may be maintained by Vietnamese enterprises that import goods and make payments for foreign services, and by foreign enterprises that produce import substitutes and bu i ld infrastructure. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget The budget is indicative only and therefore, not b ind ing. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Foreign trade enterprises require only a trading license. Some imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports of weapons, ammunition and explosives, and military equipment; drugs and toxic chemicals; dangerous and unhealthy cultural products; "reactionary and depraved" cultural products; fireworks and ch i ldren's toys that detrimentally inf luence personality, education, social order, and safety; most used consumer goods; most used equipment operating at less than 80% of original specifications or over 10 years old; and most left- hand driven cars are prohibited. Yes. All import quotas are formally approved by the government. The Ministry of Planning and Investment, in coordination with the Ministry of Trade, may also impose ad hoc temporary quantity controls. Imports of steel, cement, fertilizer, passenger cars with less than 12 seats, motorcycles, and petroleum products and sugar are subject to quantitative controls. Import tariffs range up to 80%. Most imports of machinery, equipment, and medicine are exempt from tariffs. Certain imports of foreign enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment, are also exempt from tariffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft drinks, cosmetics, and automobiles. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 921 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts must be repatriated, but no deadline is specified. Export earnings are subject to surrender requirements of up to 30%, but are not strictly enforced. Financing requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export licenses for each shipment of rice, crude oil, products made of wool and rattan, and reexported goods are not required. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent direct foreign trading rights, whereas those with an annual export turnover in the range of $2 million to $5 million may obtain temporary direct foreign trading rights. Exports of rice are subject to quota, n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other trans- actions require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance; information on application of quantitative limits or indicative limits and/or bona fide test on these trans- actions was not available at the time of publication. Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittances are subject to a tax of 5% to 10%. In principle, there are no limits, but in fact they are governed by the prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Allocations exceeding the limits require SBV permission. The l im it is $5,000 a trip, but the allocation can be raised to $10,000, if a traveler is using foreign exchange drawn from his/her own foreign currency accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated, but no deadline is specified. Surrender requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are the same as w i th other foreign exchange holdings. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on credit operations State-owned enterprises are subject to external borrowing ceilings. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents No specific regulations exist. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 922 VIETNAM To residents from nonresidents Vietnamese organizations and citizens who need foreign currency for production and business purposes have been permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries, the borrower must report periodically to the SBV the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents No specific regulations exist. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to prior approval by the SBV. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments require special permission of the SBV and are not normally permitted. Inward direct investment Regulations provide for 3 forms of foreign investment: (1) contracted business coopera- tion, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese private enterprise or state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is at least 30%. There is a limit of 50 years to 70 years on the duration of the enterprise with for- eign capital. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the Minis- try of Planning and Investment for projects under $1 million; for projects over $1 million, the provincial authorities concerned are consulted. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Land cannot be owned by foreign investors, but must be leased from the state. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad SBV approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad SBV approval is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations SBV approval is required. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on the total open position is 30% of capital. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Western Samoa is the tala. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Western Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket w i th in a margin of up to 2%. Exchange tax An exchange levy of 1% is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the CBS, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents require the CBS's approval. However, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks—are empowered to approve cer- tain payments without limits and others up to specified amounts. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exports are prohibited. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes equivalent to WS$ 1,000 a person a trip. Imports are prohibited, except for resident travelers who may take out foreign banknotes equivalent to WS$2,000 a person a trip as part of their foreign currency allowance. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 923 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 924 WESTERN SAMOA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, w i th the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency accounts with 1 of the 2 commercial banks. Approval is required to open these accounts. Yes. n.a. Yes. E l i g ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresidents who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments. Approval is required. Yes. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements The l im it for advance payments is WS$3,000. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports with a c.i.f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$ 15,000 must be settled with a sight draft. Imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under an open account, provided that payments are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Imports w i th a c.i.f. va lue of more than WS$15,000 must be financed w i th a letter of credit. The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. The importation of used cars requires prior approval of the CBS, wh ich for safety reasons does not grant approval if vehicles are more than 5 years old. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. Most products are subject to a tariff of 35%. Rates on machinery and agricultural inputs are generally lev- ied at 20% or lower, wh i le those on motor vehicles are levied at 50%. In addition, an import excise tax is levied on the value of certain imports, inclusive of import duties. For passenger cars, the excise is either 50%, 60%, or 70%, depending on engine size. Approved enterprises producing for export may receive fu ll or partial ex- emption from duties and excise taxes on inpu ts and capital equipment. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopo ly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 925 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in 3 months of the date of shipment, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, which must be surrendered to the authorized bank w i th in 4 weeks of the date of ship- ment. Documentation requirements Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Export licenses Without quotas All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Indicative limits/bona fide test All payments are subject to prior approval. Payments for certain inv is ib les may be ap- proved by the authorized banks up to specified l im i ts. Payments in excess of these l im- its, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the CBS, which is granted when applications are supported by documentary proof that capital transactions are not invo lved. The CBS's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Payments other than those for medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membership fees, and gambling and prizes earnings, are subject to quantitative limits and to indica- tive limits and/or bona f ide tests. A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on remittances of interest payments on overseas loans. CBS approval is requ i red. A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on remittances of d iv idends at the source. Remittances must be approved by the CBS. Residents and expatriates trave l ing overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equ iva lent to WS$400 a person a day, subject to a l im it of WS$5,000 a person a trip; ch i ld ren under 15 years of age are entitled to 50% of the adu lt allowances. A da i ly allowance of WS$500 a person is allotted for business travel, w i th a l im it of WS$6,000 a t r ip. Although no l im it is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. There is no specific l im it for these remittances, but the amount requested must be sup- ported by documentary evidence conf irm ing that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educa- tional ins t i tu t ion abroad and costs are in l ine w i th the preva i l ing costs in the country of study. No specific l im it exists, but amoun ts requested must be supported by documen tary ev idence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 WESTERN SAMOA Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Expatriate workers with local contracts of 1 year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of their net earn- ings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatriated during the contract may be repatriated at the end of the contract. Pensions Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no restrictions for nonresidents, but residents require approval from CBS. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$500 a person a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the CBS on a case-by-case basis. Credit card use abroad Credit cards may be used outside Western Samoa only for obtaining transport and other travel services. Applicants are required to submit charge vouchers when applying for approval to remit funds in reimbursement of charges incurred outside Western Samoa. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign exchange brought in. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers by residents require approval of the CBS. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 927 Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations Credits to residents require CBS approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments require CBS approval. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Repatriation of investments require CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBS approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the CBS. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Currency Exchange rate structure C lass if icat ion Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Repub l ic of Yemen is the Yemeni r ia l. Unitary. On January 15, 1996, a special exchange rate for imports of wheat and flour was abolished. Un t il Ju ly 1, 1996, when the exchange system was unified, there were 2 exchange rates—the official rate, which applied only to transactions between the Cen- tral Bank of Yemen (CBY) and the Ministry of Finance, as well as for budget account- ing and custom valuation purposes; and a floating market rate. The exchange rate of the Yemeni rial is determined by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control No. No. Exchange control authorities Exchange control authority is vested with the CBY. In terna t ional security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of Yemeni rial banknotes are prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Imports of Yemeni rial banknotes are prohibited. E l i g i b i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 928 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 929 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit No. No. Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses All importers ho ld ing an import license for wheat or flour may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the CBY. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Imports are registered for statistical purposes. Some imports are banned for security and religious reasons, and 3 categories of goods are banned for economic reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as well as certain types of used machinery. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. Yes. No. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Exports are registered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 930 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. No. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Effective January 15, 1996, contracting short-term foreign loans by the public sector was prohibited. Approval by the Council of Ministers is required for contracting me- dium- and long-term foreign loans by the public sector. Yes. No. Liquidation is free for approved and registered projects. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange The CBY prohibits commercial and specialized banks from granting foreign currency loans to residents (except when a foreign donor provides concessional resources to spe- cialized bankers and requires foreign currency onlending). Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Effective January 18, 1996, commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations regarding currency exposure and to begin reporting their positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 931 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Changes During 1996 December 10. The Republic of Yemen accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. January 15. The official exchange rate was depreciated from RYls 50 to RYls 100 per $1, and the special rate used for imports of wheat and f lour was eliminated. January 15. The mu l t ip le currency practice related to subsidy payments for wheat and flour imports was eliminated as the payment of the subsidy was clearly delinked from the foreign exchange transaction. February 17. The law governing the operations of moneychangers was amended to eliminate provisions inconsistent with free-market operations. July 1. The exchange system was un i f ied by canceling the off ic ial exchange rate and adopting the floating free market rate for the purposes of budget accounting, transac- tions between the Ministry of Finance and the CBY, and customs valuation. The official rate was temporarily retained for customs valuation purposes on 8 items, but was subse- quen t ly eliminated on August 31, 1996. January 1. Hotels, airline companies, and agencies were required to collect all their b i l ls in local currency and convert the balances to foreign exchange using the market ex- change rate. January 1. The distinction between transferable and nontransferable accounts was eliminated, and these accounts became freely transferable. January 1. The distinction between transferable and nontransferable accounts was eliminated, and these accounts became freely transferable. Imports and import payments January 15. The restriction relating to the opening of import letters of credit by banks was abolished. Capital transactions January 1. Commercial and specialized banks were required to observe prudential regulations regarding foreign currency exposure and to begin reporting their positions. January 15. Contracting short-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector was prohibited and approval by the Council of Ministers was required for contracting med ium- and long-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector. December 14. Commercial and specialized banks were prohibited from granting new foreign currency loans to residents (except when a foreign donor provides concessional resources to specialized banks and requires foreign currency on lend ing ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le C lass i f ica t ion Independent f loa t ing Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian kwacha. There are 4 exchange rates: (1) the official exchange rate, which is applied to all gov- ernment transactions ( inc lud ing debt service), the purchase of proceeds from external borrowing, and donor assistance by the Bank of Zambia (BOZ); (2) the commercial banks' corporate rate; (3) the commercial banks' retail rate; and (4) the interbank rate. The o f f ic ial rate is market determined, and the spread between the BOZ's buy ing and se l l ing rates is fixed at 1.6%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assis- tance funds, and export earnings), the BOZ determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the market through the dealing w indow. The exchange rates p reva i l ing in the interbank market fo l low closely those established at the BOZ's dealing window. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities In terna t ional secur ity restrictions Payment arrears O f f ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and /or b u l l i o n) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. All exchange controls have been abolished w i th the fo l low ing exception: prior approval of the BOZ must be obtained for servicing of private debt incurred prior to January 28, 1994. The Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade control. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require approval from the M in is try of Mines. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amoun ts exceeding $5,000 must be declared. 932 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 933 E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. Imports are subject to preshipment inspection, except when the f.o.b. value of each im- port consignment is less than $10,000. n.a. Yes. Licenses for statistical purposes are required, but they are granted automatically by commercial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought in temporarily are exempted from this requirement. Positive list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Tariff rates range from 20% to 50% (except for a few luxury goods, which are taxed at higher rates). Some imports are exempt under the provisions of bilateral agreements, and nontraditional exporters and certain import-competing firms are exempt under the In- vestment Act (1991). In addition, imported goods are subject to an "uplift factor" in computing domestic sales taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system State im p o rt m o n o p o ly Repatr iat ion requirements No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 934 ZAMBIA Surrender requirements The requirement on export proceeds of the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) of 45% was abolished on April 16, 1996. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Export licenses Without quotas Export licenses are required for most goods, although they are administered routinely by commercial banks under authority delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. Exports of ivory are prohibited. With quotas White maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the BOZ, subject to the requirement that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Outward transfers are free of controls. No controls apply to the sale of assets between nonresidents and between residents and nonresidents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All borrowings must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad BOZ approval is required. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements The statutory reserve ratio on foreign currency deposits is 5%. Liquid asset requirements The l iqu id asset reserve ratio is 40%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 935 Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 25% of regulatory capital. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangements Changes During 1996 January 12. The basis for determining the BOZ official rate was changed from the weighted average commercial banks' rate to the BOZ dealing rate determined by demand and supp ly. October 2. The BOZ spread, wh ich had been fixed at 2%, became adjustable on a da i ly basis. November 26. The spread between the BOZ buy ing and selling rates was fixed at 1.6%. Exports and export proceeds April 16. The surrender requirement of 45% applied to ZCCM was abolished. Capital transactions April 3. A statutory reserve ratio of 3% on foreign currency deposits was introduced. July 20. The statutory reserve ratio on foreign currency deposits was raised to 5% from 3%. July 29. The l iqu id asset requirement was increased to 35% from 30%. September 20. The l iqu id asset requirement was increased to 40% from 35%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Currency The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. Authorized dealers and foreign exchange bu- reaus base their rates for foreign currencies on current international market rates. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) between the buy ing and selling rates is 0.8% for all currencies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and mer- chant banks) may charge an additional 0.25% on either side of the quoted rates of ma jor currencies. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the size of such contracts, but their duration must be at least 1 year, depending on the currencies involved and the type of coverage. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for 6 months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Authorized dealers are ex- pected to quote to the ir customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of 17 currencies freely convertible through authorized dealers, with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. There is an arrangement w i th Malaysia. Under the Clearing House Agreement, w i th in the PTA, residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments dur ing a transaction period of 2 calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions. In terna t ional security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 936 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted ZIMBABWE 937 No person, either as principal or agent, may deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A m in ing commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or distributor of a registered m in ing location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the following month. Any person in- tending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed by the Minis- try of Mines; these controls do not apply to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those in tend ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. Travelers may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to Z$250. Travelers may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to the equivalent of US$500. Nonresident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of ex- change certificates. A traveler may bring in up to Z$250. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers or foreign exchange bureaus. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident exporters and ind iv idua ls may open foreign currency accounts in 1 of the de- nominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, ex- cept in the case of the amount of the in i t ial investment and income or capital gains from investments in listed companies on the stock exchange, un l is ted companies, or money market accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 938 ZIMBABWE Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other non- resident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer out- side Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident individu- als may open foreign currency accounts in 1 of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial invest- ment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange, unlisted companies, or money markets. Prior approval required. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Blocked accounts Only former residents residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various ex- change restrictions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements No. n.a. Advance payment requirements Authorized dealers may approve advance payments for imports up to US$50,000. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation is submitted. Payments for imports into Zim- babwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs There are no import-licensing requirements. The negative list for imports includes, besides items restricted for health or security reasons, textiles and apparel, alcoholic beverages, canned beverages, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewelry items. n.a. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural prod- ucts. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maximum of 35% of the c.i.f. value for most consumer goods (up to 60% to 75% for vehicles) with a surtax of 10%, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equivalent to the sales taxes imposed on goods sold domestically. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 939 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat may be imported only by the Grain Mar- keting and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the boards. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Exporters are permitted to retain 100% of export proceeds in foreign exchange. Market- ing boards, however, are required to sell 100% of export proceeds to authorized dealers. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satis- fied that payment has been made in an approved manner or w i ll be made w i th in 3 months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in 1 of the fo l low ing ways: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, re- spectively. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries may use national currencies in the settlement of payments during a transaction period of 2 months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed before exportation by a reputable overseas bank. n.a. n.a. n.a. Export licenses are required for the fo l low ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manu- factured product of chrome, copper, l i th ium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying l iqu ids or semiliquids; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) w i ld animals and w i ld animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. Export- licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, inc lud ing maize, oilseeds, cheese, skim m i lk, seeds, potatoes, citrus fruits, apples, ba- nanas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Quantitative limits Foreign exchange to pay for inv is ib les related to imports and, w i th in certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the l im i ts established for commercial banks are ap- proved by the RBZ, wh ich deals w i th each case on its merits. The limits are 30% of f.o.b. value of goods transported, but for goods that are of excep- tional mass in relation to value, up to 80% of the f.o.b. value may be approved. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 940 ZIMBABWE Unloading/storage costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Administrative expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The following limits apply: (1) conforming commission —up to 2.5% of c.i.f. value; (2) buy ing commission —up to 5% of f.o.b. value; (3) foreign travel agents —up to 10% of sales; and (4) selling commission —up to 7.5% of f.o.b. value. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. All d iv idends declared by foreign investors in the export sector after January 1, 1995, may be remitted to foreign shareholders without restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Blocked funds relating to profits and dividends earned on foreign investments made prior to May 1993 may be externalized over a 3-year period starting July 1, 1995. Foreign companies established prior to September 1979 are permitted to remit 50% of net after-tax profits if exports comprise more than 25% of total sales. If direct foreign exchange allocation was used, the following rules apply: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the criteria to qua l ify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange or surplus funds is permitted to remit the declared d iv idends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a maximum of 50% for 5 years from the beg inn ing of operations, after which the company w i ll qua l i fy for 100% remittance of dividends; (2) a who l ly foreign-owned company with its own blocked funds is per- mitted to repatriate 100% of its declared dividends, provided it meets all its foreign ex- change requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new jo int venture that meets the criteria to qua l ify as an export firm and has at least 30% local participa- tion, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100% of its share of declared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result of the limited remit- tance of dividends). The fo l low ing regulations apply to investments in the m in ing sector: (1) a who l ly for- eign-owned company that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatri- ate 100% of its net after-tax profits, provided that it qua l if ies as an export-oriented project; (2) a who l ly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through a combina- tion of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or sur- p lus funds (subject to a m in imum matching formula of 50-50) is allowed to remit d iv idends of up to 50% in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for jo int ventures subject to the m in imum 30% local participation criterion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. After 5 years, the company can remit 100% of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval App l ica t ions for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to Z$ 1,000 a family un i t. In exceptional cases, the exchange control authorities w i ll consider applications exceeding th is maxi- mum. All those applying for emigrant status are required to l iqu ida te their assets w i th in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 941 6 months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwean government external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the 6-month limit, the matter may be referred to the RBZ. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) per person under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) per person aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; (3) family units and single persons (under 60 years of age) with dependents, Z$ 1,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$ 10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$ 10,000. A further release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's de- parture, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is US$5,000 a year. Children under 10 years are entitled to half this amount. The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is up to US$600 a day. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits The limit is US$20,000 a trip for the patient and 1 companion. A travel allowance up to US$250 a day a person may be allowed. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Study abroad costs Prior approval Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for certain diploma and degree courses with RBZ approval. Quantitative limits The l im it is US$50,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The annual l im it for a company is US$20,000. The l im it for an initial membership fee is US$250. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The annual l im it is US$5,000 an ind iv idua l. Yes. n.a. Remittance of pensions of former residents is guaranteed under the constitution. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred w i th the exception of the first prize. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 ZIMBABWE Quantitative limits The annual limit is US$2,000 for alimony and child support payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Credit cards may be used abroad up to the limits set for invisible transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing services abroad may retain a portion of their earnings. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Market using currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. The initial investment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted without restric- tion. Foreign investors may also invest up to a maximum of 15% of the assets brought to Zimbabwe in primary issues of bonds and stocks. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4%. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents The limit on foreign borrowing without prior approval of the External Loans Coordinat- ing Committee is US$5 million. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects are permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment ZIMBABWE 943 n.a. Yes. Direct foreign investments up to US$40 m i l l ion in the preferred areas (m in ing, agro- industry, manufacturing, tourism, and high-technology services) are approved by the Zimbabwe Investment Centre. In the preferred areas, 100% foreign ownership is permit- ted; it is restricted to 25% in other areas. Previously blocked fund s, whether already converted into government bonds or not, can qua l i fy as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zimbabwe in an approved project and matched by an inf low of investment funds of up to 50% of the reinvested blocked funds, as determined by the RBZ. Blocked funds can be used by th i rd parties, foreign as well as domestic, for investment on freely negotiated terms; as new venture capital, the total investment is e l ig ib le to be remitted as dividends for up to 50% of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, un l ike new venture capital, must be reinvested in Zimbabwe for at least 5 years. All foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979, may be considered for repatriation up to the value of capital invested less d iv idends transferred abroad. The balance may be transferred only through the established med ium of 6-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4% a year. Repatriation may be permitted w i thout restric- tion if funds are used to acquire foreign exchange and if d iv idends were not remitted w i th such funds. The repatriation of capital invested before September 1, 1979, is pro- hibited. However, shareholders are allowed, w i th in limits, to apply to the RBZ for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such applica- tion is approved, the capital is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4% a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years (for ind iv idua ls) or 20 years (for firms). Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equity is allowed. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Investment regulations Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Authorized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure l im i ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 944 ZIMBABWE Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad n.a. Limits (min .) on portfolio invested locally Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 25% of the total equity of the com- pany, with a l im it of 5% for 1 investor. These limits are in addition to any existing for- eign shareholdings in the companies. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Changes During 1996 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDICES ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: apt a mar secun tes Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other Institutional investors T o t a l u n m e b r o f n u o c i r t s e w t i h t h i s f a e t u r e 143 42 47 22 16 48 51 17 6 51 54 105 115 92 128 112 107 78 103 76 00 144 54 119 1 ^i 6Q A f n a h g i s t n a , s I l a m i c S t a t o e f 0 A l n a b i a 0 fO'§M> < £ 0 1 < 0 0 A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b 0 A r n e g i t a n 0 m A r n e i a - | 9 0 1 A u s r t a i l a 1 0 A u s i r t a V :!* N < 0 B a h a m s a , T e h 1 0 B h a r a i n + B g n a l s e d a h e 0 '• (A O & B e l a r u s 1 £ £ 2 '5b3 T .a 1 0 | 1 1 9 0 .2 1 B o s n i a d n a H e r v o g e z i a n 0 0 0 For key and footnotes, see page 952. 946 credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • — • — — — — — • • — — • • • • • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • — — — • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • — • • — — • • • • • — Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 • • • • • IB • A0 v • • • • • • • • • 40 e e e e ^ e V • • • • • ^ X • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • _ • • • • • _ _ •_ • • • — — • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • • • • — — — • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • _ _ _ • • • — — — _ _ _• •_ _ _ • • «_ _ _ _ _ _• B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B r e n u i D a r u a s s l a m B u l a g i r a B u r k i a n F s a o B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R b u p e i l c C d a h C h l i e C h i a n C o l o m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o , D e m . R p e . o f C o g n o , R p e . o f C o s t a R i a c C o t e d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E r t i r a e E s t n o i a E t h i p o i a F i j i 947 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors » V » T » » T ) ) * » » » » > e > y $ 0 > T 0 V Q For key and footnotes, see page 952. 948 d n a n F i l F n a r e c G n o b a G a m a b i , T h e G g r o e i a G r e m y n a G a n a h G e c e e r G e r a d a n G a u t e m a l a G n u i a e G n u i a e - B i s s u a G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o a r s H g n o K g n o , C a n h i H y r a g n u e c I l d n a I d n i a I n o d n s e i a n a r I , s I l a m i c R e p . o f q a r I e r I l d n a e a r s I l t I a l y ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • • — — — — — — • • • • • • — — — — — — — — • • • • • • • • — — — — — — — — — • • • • • — • — • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — — — — • — • • • — — • • • • • • — — — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 • • • • 0 0 • • • 0 © © A © © A T • • • • • • • • • • • • ' • • • _ • • • • * _ * • • • — • • _ _ • — • • _ _ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • • • • • — — • • — • — • • — • — • • _ _ _ _ • __ • • • — • — • • — — _ _ -_ • _ _ _ _ • __ _ _ __ • _ _ _• • _ _• a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K h k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L a t v i a L n o n a b e L s e o t o h L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a L e x u m u o b r g M n o d e c a i a , f m r . Y o g u s l v a R p e M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M i c r s e n o i a , F d e . S t a t s e o f M o l a v o d M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m b i e u q M n a y m a r N a m i b i a 949 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors V X T T + S S . 0 For key and footnotes, see page 952. 950 N a p e l , j— - - - » N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P l d n a o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a . t V i n e c n t d n a t e h G r s e n d a n e i n a M a i r o n ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • — • • — — — — — — — — Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 • • • • • • • 0 • e e e 'jj& e + T + • • • • • £ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • — • • _ • • • • • _ _ • • — • • _ • • • « _ « • • — • • _ — • • • • • • • _ « — — _• — • — _ • •_ _— • • _ • _ • • _ • • * «_ « S o a T o m e d n a P i r c n i e p S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e k a v o S l R b u p e i l c n e v o S l i a o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a 951 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. - indicates that data were not available at time of publication. • indicates that the arrangement is pegged to the U.S. dollar. * indicates that the arrangement is pegged to the French franc. 0 indicates that arrangements are pegged either to the Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, Singapore dol- lar, or South African rand. A indicates that the composite is the SDR. 0 indicates that the composite is a basket of other currencies. •f indicates that flexibility is limited to a single currency. T indicates that the country participates in the ERM of the EMS. 1 The listing includes Hong Kong, China; Aruba; and the Nether- lands Antilles. 2 Usually December 31,1996. a o m a S n r e t s e W m a n t e i V a l e u z e n e V u t a u n a V f o c i l b u p e R , n e m e Y e w b a b m i Z a i b m a Z Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV • • • • • • • Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates e e • • • • • Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears • • • • Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors 952 • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • " • • • • • • • • • • • __ — • • • • — • • • — — • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification Pegged Limited flexibility with respect to a single currency Cooperative arrangement Adjusted according to a set of indicators Managed floating Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange Arrangement Arrangements for Payments and Receipts 953 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 954 APPENDIX II Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Other Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Jur id ical persons Natural persons Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 955 Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 956 APPENDIX II Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes " Taxes collected through the exchange system Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Adm in is t ra t ive expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 957 Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 958 APPENDIX II Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 959 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions spec i f ic to inst itut ional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min .) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 APPENDIX II Changes Dur ing 1996 Status u n d er IMF Articles of Ag reement Exchange a r rangemen ts A r rangemen ts for paymen ts and receipts Resident accounts Non re s ident accoun ts Impo r ts and im p o rt paymen ts Expor ts and export proceeds Paymen ts for inv i s ib le transac t ions and cu r r ent t rans fe rs Proceeds f rom inv is ib le t ransac t ions and cu r r ent t rans fe rs Cap i tal transac t ions Status u n d er IMF Articles of Ag reement Exchange a r rangemen ts A r rangemen ts for paymen ts and receipts Resident accoun ts Non res ident accounts Impo r ts and impo rt paymen ts Exports and export proceeds Paymen ts for inv is ib le t ransac t ions and cu r r ent t rans fe rs Proceeds f rom inv i s ib le t ransac t ions and cu r r ent t rans fe rs Cap i tal t ran sac t ions Changes Dur ing 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 