 A n n u al R e p o rt o n Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 2 0 03 I n t e r n a t i o n al M o n e t a ry F u nd ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 2003 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: In terna t ional Mone tary Fund. Annu al Report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and Legislation — Periodicals 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. 1. Title K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.7'51 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-58906-218-3 Price: US$110.00 (US$55.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org Internet: http://www.imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 29, 2003 Dear Sir or Madam: I have the honor of transmitting to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 2003, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I would like to express our appreciation to the countries for their cooperation in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Horst Kohler Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definition of Acronyms Introduction Compilation Guide Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frame- works for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Page ix xi 1 2 9 12 , Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central A f r ican Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Hong Kong SAR Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Costa Rica CotedTvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Gu inea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Page 19 24 29 35 43 48 61 66 70 76 80 86 94 98 108 115 123 127 133 141 146 150 154 158 165 169 175 182 188 192 199 203 208 214 221 227 237 v Page 242 249 255 261 267 271 279 286 297 301 304 308 313 319 323 328 332 339 343 348 355 364 368 373 380 383 388 392 398 402 408 412 418 424 428 432 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist People's Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles Page 440 444 457 464 471 476 479 483 487 492 496 499 510 514 517 524 529 535 539 543 548 553 556 562 567 571 579 584 590 601 605 611 619 622 628 632 640 644 654 659 668 673 679 687 693 697 New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Page 701 705 708 715 721 725 728 737 740 743 749 753 757 768 774 779 782 788 799 805 810 815 819 824 829 832 836 844 855 859 864 868 873 879 885 890 899 903 912 917 923 930 934 938 946 952 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates CONTENTS Page 958 966 969 977 982 986 998 1006 1011 1015 1025 United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Republica Bolivariana de Vietnam Yemen, Republic of Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix: Country Table Matrix V ll Page 1029 1033 1039 1044 1053 1057 1063 1070 1074 1078 1089 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been pub l ished by the IMF since 1950. It draws on informa t ion available to the IMF from a number of sources, in c lud ing that pro- vided in the course of o f f ic ial staff visits to member countries, and has been prepared in close consultation with na t ional au tho r i t ies. The informa t ion is presented in a tabular format. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Financial Systems Department by a staff team directed by Shogo Ish ii and comprising Kyung-Mo Huh, Virgilio A. Sandoval, Jahanara Zaman, Harald Anderson, and Malinee Ramiscal. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's six area departments, together with staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre, Helen Chin, and Esha Ray of the External Relations Department and was produced by Mrs. Ramiscal and the IMF Multimedia Services Division. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS BEAC CEEAC CEFTA CEPGL CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA ACP ACU ATC BCEAO CACM CAEMC CAP CARICOM Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Union (integrated by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary un it ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations (integrated by Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and Clothing Central Bank of West African States; the West African states are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo Bank of Central African States; the Central African states are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon Central American Common Market (integrated by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Central African Economic and Monetary Community (integrated by the members of the BEAC) Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Community and Common Market (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago). The Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market. Economic Community of Central African States (integrated by Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe) Central European Free Trade Area (integrated by Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia) Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (integrated by Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda) Common effective preferential tar iff of the ASEAN free trade zone Common external tariff Communaute fmanciere d 'A f r ique (administered by the BCEAO) and Cooperation fmanciere en Afr ique centrale (administered by the BEAC) Commonwealth of Independent States (integrated by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan) Common Monetary Area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved; formerly integrated by Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Vietnam) Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (integrated by Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) East African Community European Central Bank Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Eastern Caribbean Currency Union Economic Community of West African States (integrated by Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) European Coal and Steel Community European economic area European Free Trade Association (integrated by Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland) European Economic and Monetary Union Exchange rate mechanism (of the European monetary system) European Union (formerly European Community; integrated by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom) Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (of the OECD; integrated by Argentina; Australia; Austria; Belgium; Brazil; Canada; Denmark; European Commission; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; the GCC; Hong Kong SAR; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan; Luxembourg; Mexico; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; Switzerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States) Former Soviet Union ECSC EEA EFTA EMU ERM EU FATF ECCU ECOWAS EAC ECB ECCB COMES A FSU XI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution X ll GCC GSP IOSCO LAIA LC LIBOR MERCOSUR MFA MFN MOF NAFTA OECD OECS OGL PACER PARTA PICTA RCPSFM R IFF SACU SADC SDR SPARTECA UCAC UDEAC UN UNITA VAT WAEMU WAMA WTO DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS Gu lf Cooperation Counc il (Cooperation Counc il for the Arab States of the Gu l f; integrated by the K ingdom of Bahra in, Kuwa i t, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Un i ted Arab Emirates) Generalized system of preferences In te rna t ional Organization of Secur i t ies Commissions Latin American In tegra t ion Association (integrated by Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Pe ru, U ruguay, and Repub l ica Bo l iv a r i ana de Venezue la) Letter of credit London interbank offered rate Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by A rgen t ina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) Mu l t i f ib er Arrangement Most-favored nation M in i s t ry of f inance North American Free Trade Agreement Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (integrated by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Repub l ic, Denmark, F in land, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Repub l ic of Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovak Repub l ic, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Turkey, Un i ted K ingdom, and U n i t ed States) Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by An t igua and Barbuda, Dom in ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (of the Pacific Islands Forum; integrated by Aus tra l ia, Cook Islands, F i j i, K i r iba t i, Marsha ll Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nau ru, New Zealand, N iue, Pa lau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanua tu) Pacific Regional Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum) Pac if ic Island Countries Trade Agreement (of the Pac if ic Islands Forum; integrated by Cook Islands, F i j i, K i r ib a t i, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, N au ru, N iue, Palau, Papua New Gu inea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanua tu) Regional Council on P u b l ic Savings and F inanc ial Markets (an in s t i tu t ion of WAEMU coun t r ies that is invo lved in the authorization for issuance and marketing of securities) Regional Integration Fac i l i ta t ion Fo rum (formerly the Cross-Border In i t i a t iv e; integrated by B u r u n d i, Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, M au r i t iu s, Nam ib ia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Southern A f r ican Customs U n i on (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Nam ib ia, South Afr ica, and Swaziland) Southern A f r i ca Deve lopment Commun i ty (integrated by Ango la, Botswana, Democratic R epub l ic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Maur i t ius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special draw ing r igh ts South Pac if ic Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, K i r iba t i, Marsha ll Islands, Federated States of M icrones ia, N au ru, New Zealand, N i u e, Pa lau, Papua New Gu inea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Central A f r ican U n i ts of Accoun ts Central A f r ican Customs and Econom ic U n i on (integrated by Cameroon, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, Repub l ic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) Un i ted Na t ions Na t ional Un ion for the Total Independence of Ango la Value-added tax West A f r ican Economic and Monetary Un ion (former ly WAMU; integrated by the members of the BCEAO) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) World Trade Organization Note: This l ist does not i n c l u de acronyms of pu r e ly na t ional i n s t i t u t i o ns men t ioned in the coun t ry chapters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The report provides a detailed description of the ex- change arrangements and exchange/trade restrictions of indi- vidual IMF member countries and Hong Kong SAR, as well as Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the K ingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 2002, but, in appropriate cases, refer- ence is made to significant developments that took place in early 2003. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange re- strictions o re xchange c ontrols. A s i n p revious r eports, q ues- tions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country inc ludes a final section that lists chronologically the significant changes dur ing 2002 and early 2003. The report is presented in a tabular format that enhances transparency and uniformity of treatment of the information across countries and includes coverage on the regulatory framework for capital transactions. The in fo rma t ion serves to update the exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database maintained by the IMF. The country chapters present an abstract of the relevant information that is available to the IMF. The report also includes the official IMF classification table on Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Mone- tary Policy. This classification system is based on the informa- tion available on the operations of members' de facto policies, as analyzed by IMF staff, which may d i f fer from countries' off ic ia l ly announced arrangements. The table on Summary Fea- tures o f E xchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries provides an overview of the characteristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. The Country Table Ma tr ix (the Appendix) provides a complete listing of the ru- brics used in the database. When it is unclear whether a particular category or measure ex is ts, because per t inent in fo rma t ion is not avail- able at the time of publication, the category is displayed with the notation "n.a." If a measure is known to exist but specific information on it is not available, the category is displayed with the notation "yes-" When information is available on all but a particular item or items within a cate- gory, these items are not included in the table. In cases where members have provided the IMF with the information that a category or an item is not regulated, these are marked by"n.r." 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV The member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The member country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Exchange Arrangement The official legal tender of the country. The existence of another currency that is allowed to be used officially in the country. If there is one exchange rate, the system is called unitary; if there are more than one exchange rates that may be used simultaneously for different purposes and/or by differ- ent entities, the system is called dual or multiple. Different effective exchange rates resulting from exchange taxes or subsidies are not included in this category. The currency of another country circulates as the sole legal tender (formal dollariza- tion), or the member belongs to a monetary or currency union in which the same legal tender is shared by the members of the union. Adopting such regimes is a form of surrendering the monetary authorities' independent control over domestic monetary policy. A monetary regime based on an explicit legislative commitment to exchange domestic currency for a specified foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate, combined with re- strictions on the issuing authority to ensure the fu lf i l lment of its legal obligation. This implies that domestic currency may be issued only against foreign exchange and that it must remain fu l ly backed by foreign assets, thus eliminating traditional central bank functions, such as monetary control and the role of lender-of-last-resort. This leaves l i t t le scope for discretionary monetary policy, although some flexibility may still be afforded, depending on how strict the rules of the boards are. The country pegs its currency (formally or de facto) at a fixed rate to another currency or a basket of currencies, where the basket is formed from the currencies of major trading or financial partners and weights reflect the geographical distribution of trade, services, or capital flows. The currency composites may also be standardized, such as those of the SDR. There is no commitment to maintain the parity irrevocably. The exchange rate may fluctuate within a narrow margin of less than ±1% around a central rate, or the maximum and minimum values of the exchange rate may remain within a narrow margin of 2% for at least three months. The monetary authority stands ready to keep the fixed parity through direct intervention (i.e., sale/purchase of foreign ex- change in the market) or indirect intervention (e.g., aggressive use of interest rate pol- icy, imposition of foreign exchange regulations or exercise of moral suasion that constrains foreign exchange activity, or intervention by other public institutions). Flexibility of monetary policy, though limited, is greater than in hard pegs because traditional central banking func t ions are still possible, and the monetary authority can adjust the level of the exchange rate, although relatively infrequen t ly. The value of the currency is maintained within certain margins of fluctuation of at least ±1% around a formal or a de facto fixed central rate. This category also includes the arrangements of the countries participating in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS), which was replaced with ERM II on Janu- ary 1, 1999. There is a limited degree of monetary policy discretion, which depends on the bandwidth. The currency is adjusted periodically in small increments at a fixed rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators, such as past inflation differentials 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 3 vis-a-vis major trading partners, differentials between the target inflation and expected in f la t ion in major trading partners, and so forth. The rate of crawl may be set to gener- ate inflation-adjusted changes in the currency (backward looking), or set at a prean- nounced fixed rate and/or below the projected inflation differentials (forward looking). Ma in ta in ing a credible crawling peg imposes constraints on monetary policy in a simi- lar manner as a fixed peg system. The value of the currency is maintained within certain fluctuation margins of at least ±1% around a central rate, which is adjusted periodically at a fixed rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators. The degree of flexibility of the exchange rate is a function of the width of the band, with bands chosen to remain either symmetric around a crawling central parity or to widen gradually with an asymmetric choice of the crawl of upper and lower bands (in the latter case, there may not be a preannounced central rate). The commitment to maintain the exchange rate within the band continues to impose constraints on monetary policy, with the degree of policy independence being a function of the bandwidth. The monetary authority influences exchange rate movements through active interven- tion to counter the long-term trend of the exchange rate without specifying a prede- termined exchange rate path or without having a specific exchange rate target. Indicators for managing the rate are broadly judgmental —balance of payments posi- tion, international reserves, parallel market developments —and adjustments may not be automatic. Intervention may be direct or indirect. A distinction is made between "tightly managed floating"—where intervention takes the form of very tight monitor- ing that generally results in a stable exchange rate without a clear exchange rate path, with the aim of permitting the authorities an extra degree of flexibility in deciding the tactics to achieve a desired path —and "other managed floating," where the exchange rate is influenced in a more ad hoc fashion. The exchange rate is market determined, with any foreign exchange intervention aimed at moderating the rate of change and preventing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate, rather than at establishing a level for it. In these regimes, monetary policy is, in principle, independent of exchange rate policy. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to a special tax. Bank commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions are not included in this category; rather, they are listed under the exchange arrangement classification. Foreign exchange transactions are subsidized by using separate, nonmarket exchange rates. Crawling band Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The existence of a forward exchange market. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage of forward operations refers to the case where an official entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of certain foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The official requirements affecting the selection of currency and the method of settle- ment for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to a pre- scription of currency for specified categories of payments to, and receipts from, the countries concerned. This category includes information on the use of domestic cur- rency in transactions between residents and nonresidents, both domestically and abroad; it also indicates whether there are any restrictions on the use of foreign cur- rency among residents. Two countries conclude an agreement to prescribe specific rules for payments to each other, including cases where private parties are also obligated to use specific currencies. These agreements can be either operative or inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 COMPILATION GUIDE Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) More than two parties participate in a payments agreement. The o f f ic ial bodies of two or more coun tr ies agree to offset w i th some regu lar i ty the balances that arise from payments to each other as a resu lt of the exchange of goods, services, or— less often —capital. The o f f ic ial bodies of two or more coun tr ies agree to offset exports of goods and services to one coun t ry w i th imports of goods and services from the same country, w i thout payment. The au tho r i t ie s' d iv i s ion of respons ib i l i ty for mon i to r ing policy, adm in is te r ing exchange controls, and de te rm in ing the extent of delegation of powers to outside agencies (often banks are authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions). Res tr ic t ions on payments and transfers in connec t ion with in te rna t ional transactions imposed by member coun t r ies for reasons of na t ional or in te rna t ional security. In te rna t ional security restrictions on the basis of IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), wh ich establishes the ob l iga t ion of members to n o t i fy the IMF before impos ing such res tr ic t ions, or, if circumstances prec lude advance no t i f ica t ion, as promptly as possible. In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Sanctions imposed against a second body on the basis of a UN decision. Payments arrears Off ic ial or private residents of a member defau lt on their payments or transfers in for- eign exchange to nonresidents. This category includes only the situation in which domestic currency is available for residents to settle the ir debts, but they are unab le to obtain foreign exchange, for example, because of the presence of an o f f ic ia l ly an- nounced or uno f f i c i al qu eu ing system; it does not cover nonpayment by pr iva te parties due to bankrup tcy of the party concerned. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The existence of separate ru les for trading in gold, both domestically and with foreign coun tr ies. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The existence of regulations for the physical movement of means of payment between countries. Where information is available, the category distinguishes between separate l im i ts for the (1) export and import of banknotes by travelers and (2) export and import of banknotes by banks and other authorized f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s. Resident Accounts Indicates whe ther resident accoun ts that are ma in ta ined in the na t ional currency or in foreign currency, loca l ly or abroad, are allowed and describes how they are treated and the f a c i l i t i es and l im i ta t ions attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident account, the na tu re and operation of the var ious types of accounts are also described: for example, whe ther residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts w i th or w i t h o ut approval from the exchange con trol au tho r i ty; whe ther these accounts may be held domestically or abroad; or whether the balances on accounts held by residents in domestic currency may be converted into foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Indicates whether local nonresident accounts maintained in the na t ional currency or in foreign currency are allowed and describes how they are treated and the fac i l i t ies and l im i ta t ions attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonres ident account, the n a tu re and operation of the var ious types of accounts are also described. Accounts of nonresidents, u sua l ly in domestic currency. Regu la t ions p roh ib it or l im it the conversion and/or transfer of the balances of such accounts. Blocked accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 5 Imports and Import Payments Describes the na ture and ex tent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports. Information on the existence of a foreign exchange plan, i.e., prior allocation of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usually on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods and/or services; in some cases, also differentiating between individual importers. Informa t ion on specific import-financing regulations l im i t ing the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the f inanc ing options d i f fer from the official regu la t ions. The obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified (usually domestic) financial ins t i tu t ion. Most often a compulsory government measure aimed at establishing the veracity of the import contract in terms of vo lume, quality, and price. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Parties are obligated to use letters of credit as a form of payment for their imports. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses are not used for trade purposes but to restrict the availability of foreign exchange for legitimate trade. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly A list of goods that may be imported. A list of goods that may not be imported. Indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of l icens ing requirements. Refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific l im it is imposed on the amount to be imported. May i n c l u de p roh ib i t ions on imports of certain goods f rom all coun tr ies or of all goods from a certain coun try. Several other non tar iff measures are used by members (e.g., phyto-sanitary exam ina t ions, setting of standards, and so forth), but these are not covered f u l ly in the Report. A brief description of the import tax/tariff system, inc lud ing taxes levied on the foreign exchange made available for imports. Indicates if any taxes apply to the exchange side of an import transac t ion. Private parties are not allowed to engage in the import of certain products or they are l im i ted in the ir activity. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The ob l iga t ion of exporters to repatriate export proceeds. Describes res t r ic t ions on the use of export proceeds, as well as regu la t ions on exports. Surrender requirements Regulations requ i r ing the recipient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to the central bank, commercial banks, foreign exchange markets, or exchange dealers authorized for th is purpose. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 COMPILATION GUIDE Financing requirements Information on specific export-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the financing options differ from the official regulations. Documentation requirements The same categories as in the case of imports are used. Export licenses Export taxes Restrictions on the right of residents to export goods. These restrictions may take the form of quotas (where a certain quantity of shipment abroad is allowed) or the absence of quotas (where the licenses are issued at the discretion of the foreign trade control authority). A brief description of the export tax system, inc lud ing any taxes that are levied on the foreign exchange earned by exporters. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Describes the procedures for effecting payments abroad in connection with current transactions in invisibles, with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative and indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Detailed information on the most common categories of transactions is provided only when regulations d i f fer for the various categories. Indicative limits establish maximum amounts up to which the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the nature of the transaction, mainly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by the presentation of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also may be applied to transactions for which quantita- tive limits have not been established. Includes fre igh t / insurance ( inc lud ing possible regulations on non-trade related insur- ance payments and transfers); unloading/storage costs; administrative expenses; com- missions; and customs duties and fees. Includes profits/dividends; interest payments (including interest on debentures, mortgages, and so forth); amortization of loans or depreciation of foreign direct investments; and payments and transfers of rent. Inc ludes international travel for business, medical treatment, tourism, and so forth. Includes medical expenditures abroad; study expenses abroad; pensions (including regulations on payments and transfers of pensions by both state and private pension providers on behalf of nonresidents, as well as the transfer of pensions due to residents l iv ing abroad); and fam i ly maintenance/alimony (including regulations on payments and transfers abroad of family maintenance/alimony by residents). Transfer abroad of earnings by nonresidents working in the country. Use of credit and debit cards to pay for inv is ib le transactions. Inc ludes subscription/membership fees, authors' royalties, consulting/legal fees, and so forth. Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Other payments Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Describes regu la t ions governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in invis- ibles —including descriptions of any limitations on their conversion into domestic currency —and the use of those receipts. The definitions of repatriation and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain types of bank accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 7 Capital Transactions Describes regu la t ions in f lu en c ing both inward and outward capital flows. The concept of controls on capital transactions is interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital transactions inc lude p roh ib i t ion s; need for pr ior approval, authorization, and notifica- t ion; dual and mu l t ip le exchange rates; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest pena l t ies imposed by the au thor i t ies that regulate the conclusion or execu- tion of transactions or transfers, or the holding of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations applies to receipts as well as to payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. In addition, because of the close association with capital transactions, information is also provided on local financial operations conducted in foreign currency, describing specific regulations in force that limit residents and nonresidents issuing securities denominated in for- eign currency or, generally, limitations on contract agreements expressed in foreign exchange. Refers to pub l ic offerings or private placements on primary markets or their listing on secondary markets. Refers to shares and other securities of a participating na ture, and bonds and other securities with an original ma tur i ty of more than one year. Inc ludes transactions invo lv ing shares and other securities of a participating nature if they are not effec ted for the purpose of acqu ir ing a lasting economic interest in the management of the enterprise concerned. Investment for the purpose of acquiring a las t ing economic interest is treated under foreign direct investments. Refers to bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. The term "other securities" includes notes and debentures. Refers to securities w i th an or ig inal ma tu r i ty of one year or less and includes short- term instruments, such as certificates of deposit and bills of exchange. The category also includes treasury b i l ls and other short-term government paper, banker's acceptances, commercial papers, interbank deposits, and repurchase agreements. In c lud es share cer t if ica tes and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an in s t i tu t ion for co l lec t ive inves tmen t, such as mutual funds, and un it and investment trus ts. Refers to opera t ions in other negotiable ins trumen ts and nonsecur i t ized claims not covered under the above subsections. These may include operations in rights; war- rants; f in an c i al op t ions and fu tu res; secondary market operations in other f inanc ial claims ( i n c l u d i ng sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable ins trumen ts o r ig ina t ing as loans, receivables, and discounted b i l ls of trade); forward operations ( inc lud ing those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign currency, as well as swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Controls on operations in foreign exchange w i thout any other underlying transaction (on spot or forward trading on the foreign exchange markets, on forward cover operations, and so forth) are also inc luded. Covers operations directly linked w i th international trade transactions or with the rende r ing of in terna t ional services. Includes credits other than commercial credits granted by all residents, including banks, to nonresidents or vice versa. Includes those provided by residents to nonresidents and vice versa. It also includes securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract —such as warrants, performance bonds, and standby letters of credit —and f inanc ial backup facilities that are credit fac i l i t ies used as a guarantee for independent f inanc ial operations. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Refers to inves tmen ts for the purpose of es tab l ish ing las t ing economic re la t ions both abroad by residents and in the coun try by nonresidents. These investments are essen- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 COMPILATION GUIDE t i a l ly for purposes of produc ing goods and services, and, in par t icu lar, investments th at a l l ow inv e s tor p a r t i c ip a t ion in the management of the enterprise. The category i n c l u d es the c rea t ion or ex ten s ion of a w h o l ly owned enterprise, subs id iary, or branch and the a c q u i s i t i on of f u ll or partial owne rsh ip of a new or ex is t ing enterprise that results in effec t ive in f lu en ce over the operations of the enterprise. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct inves tment Refers to the transfer of p r inc ipa l, inc lud ing the in i t i al capital and capital gains, of a fo re ign d i rect inve s tment as de f ined above. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Prov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open fo r e ign exchange po s i t ion l i m i ts Refers to the acqu is i t ion of real estate not associated w i th direct investment. It i n c l u d e s, for examp le, inv e s tm en ts of a p u r e ly f i n a n c i al n a tu re in real estate or the a c q u i s i t i on of real estate for personal use. Covers t ran s fe rs i n i t i a t ed on beha lf of p r iva te persons and in tended to b en e f it o ther pr iva te persons. It in c lud es transactions i n v o l v i ng property to which the promise of a re tu rn to the owner w i th payments of interest is attached (loans, settlements of debt in t h e ir c o u n t ry of o r ig in by imm ig ran t s ), and t rans fe rs effected free of charge to the b e n e f i c i a ry ( g i f ts and endowmen ts, loans, inhe r i tances and legacies, and emigrants' assets). Describes r e g u l a t i o ns that are spec i f ic to these in s t i tu t ion s, such as monetary, p ruden- t i a l, and fore ign exchange controls. In c lu s ion of an entry in th is category does not n e c e s s a r i ly s i g n i fy th at the a im of the measure is to con t rol the f low of capital. Some of these i tems (bo r row ing abroad, l e n d i ng to non re s iden t s, pu rchase of loca l ly issued secu r i t ies denom ina ted in fore ign exchange, investment regulations) may merely be r ep e t i t ions of the en t r ies und er respective categories of con tro ls on capital and money market in s t rum en t s, con t ro ls on credit operations, or direct inves tmen ts when the same r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to commercial banks as we ll as to other residents. Describes r egu l a t ions on certain commercial bank ba lance sheet items ( in c lud ing capital) and on l im i ts covering commercial banks' positions in foreign currencies ( i n c l u d i ng go ld). Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Describes con t ro ls spec i f ic to i n s t i t u t i o n s, such as in su r an ce companies and pension f u n d s. Other controls imposed by secur it ies laws Re fe rs to a d d i t i o n al r e g u l a t i o ns on cap i tal t ran s fe rs imposed by law, such as con t ro ls on the l i s t i ng of fo re ign s e cu r i t i es on local s e cu r i ty markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other E u ro a rea4'5 Au s t r ia Be lg ium F in land France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Spain Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Exchange a r rangemen ts w i th no separate legal tender (41) Cu r r en cy board a r rangemen ts (7) Other conven t ional f ixed peg arrangements (42) Pegged exchange rates w i th in ho r izon tal bands (5)l° Craw l ing pegs (5) Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 1 ,2 Exchange rate anchor Monetary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Inflation ta rge t ing f ramewo rk IMF-supported or o ther mone ta ry program Ano ther cu r rency as legal tender ECCU3 Ecuador An t igua and El Salvador6 Barbuda Kiribati Dominica Marshall Islands Grenada Micronesia, Fed. St. Kitts and States of Nevis Palau St. Lucia Panama St. Vincent San Marino and the Timor- Leste Grenadines Bosnia and Herzegovina* Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria* China— Hong Kong SAR Djibouti* Estonia L i thuan ia* Against a single cu r rency (32) Aruba Bahamas, The7 Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh Barbados Belize Bhutan Cape Verde* China, P.R. of|8 Comoros9 Eritrea Guinea*8 Jordan*8 Lebanon8 Lesotho* Macedonia, FYR8 Malaysia Ma ld ives8 Nam ib ia Nepal Ne ther lands An t i l les Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia Sudan8 Suriname7' 8 Swaziland Syrian Arab Rep.7 Turkmen is tan8 Ukraine8 Un i ted Arab Emirates Zimbabwe8 W i t h in a cooperative a r r ang em ent ERM II (1) Denmark Bolivia Costa Rica8 Nicaragua* Solomon Is lands8 Tunisia8 CFA f r a nc zone WAEMU CAEMC Benin* Cameroon* Burk ina Central Faso* A f r i c an Cote Rep.* d ' lvo i re* Chad* Guinea- Congo, B issau* Rep. of* Mali* Equa to r ial Niger* Gu inea Senegal* Gabon* Togo China, P.R. o f f8 Against a composite (10) Botswana7 Fiji Kuwa it Latvia Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya Ma l ta Morocco Samoa Seychelles Vanua tu Other band a r r ang em en ts (4) Cyprus Egypt7 Hungary! Tonga Hungary! Tun is ia 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 Exchange Rate Regime (Numb er of countries) Exchange rates w i t h in c raw l ing bands (5)11 Managed floating w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed path for the exchange rate (45) Independen t ly floating (37) Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Mone tary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Sloveniat8 In f la t ion targeting f ramewo rk Israeli IMF-supported or other monetary program Other Exchange rate anchor Belarus Honduras Israelt Romania*8 Sloveniat8 Afghanistan, I.S. of Algeria4 Angola4 Bu rund i4 Croatia Dominican Rep.4' 7 Guatemala*4 Haiti4' 8 India4 Iraq13 Kazakhstan4 Mauritania Myanmar4' 7> 8 Nigeria Paraguay4 Russian Federation Singapore4 Slovak Rep.4 Trinidad and Tobago Uzbekistan4' 7 Japan4 Liberia4 Papua New Guinea4 Somalia7' 13 Switzerland4 United States4 Gambia, The* Czech Rep. Ghana Thailand Guyana* Indonesia* Iran, I.R. of Jamaica8 Maur i t ius Sao Tome and Principe*8 Argentina Azerbaijan Cambodia7 Ethiopia Kenya Kyrgyz Rep. Lao PDR7 Moldova8 Mongolia Pakistan Rwanda Serbia and Montenegro12 Tajikistan Vietnam Zambia Malawi* Australia Albania Sierra Brazil* Armenia Leone* Canada Congo, Dem. Sri Lanka Chile7 Rep. of Uruguay Colombia Georgia Venezuela, Iceland Madagascar Rep. Korea Mozambique Bolivariana Mexico Tanzania de New Zealand Uganda Yemen, Norway Rep. of Peru*t Philippines Poland South Africa Sweden Turkey* United Kingdom Source: IMF staff reports. 1 Data are accurate as of December 31, 2002. The fo l low ing countries were reclassified subsequent to that date: Egypt, Kuwait, Sudan, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela. 2 An asterisk (*) indicates that the country has an IMF-supported or other monetary program. A dagger (|) indicates that the country adopts more than one nominal anchor in conducting monetary policy (it should be noted, however, that it would not be possible, for practical reasons, to infer from this table which nominal anchor plays the principal role in conducting monetary policy). 3 These countries have a currency board arrangement. 4 The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. 5 Un t il they were w i thdrawn in the first quarter of 2002, national currencies retained their status as legal tender within their national territories. 6 For El Salvador, the pr in t ing of new colones, the domestic currency, is prohibited, but the existing stock of colones will continue to circulate along with the U.S. dollar as legal tender un t il all colon notes wear out physically. 7 The member ma in ta ins an exchange arrangement invo lv ing more than one market. The arrangement shown is that maintained in the major market. 8 The regime operating de facto in the country is d ifferent from its de jure regime. 9 Comoros has the same arrangement w i th the French Treasury as the CFA franc zone countries. 10 The band widths for these countries are Cyprus (±15%), Denmark (±2.25%), Egypt (±3%), Hungary (±15%), and Tonga (±5%). 1' The band widths for these countries are Belarus (±5%), Honduras (±7%), Israel (±22%), and Romania and Slovenia (unannounced). 12 The Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia was renamed Serbia and Montenegro on February 4, 2003. 13 In su f f i c i ent information on the country is available for classification. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 11 Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks The classification system is based on the members' actual, de facto, regimes that may d iffer from their officially announced arrangements. The scheme ranks exchange rate regimes on the basis of the degree of f lex ib i l i ty of the arrangement. It distinguishes between the more rigid forms of pegged regimes (such as currency board arrangements); other conventional fixed peg regimes against a single currency or a basket of currencies; exchange rate bands around a fixed peg; crawling peg arrangements; and exchange rate bands around c raw l ing pegs, in order to he lp assess the imp l ica t ions of the choice of exchange rate regime for the degree of independence of monetary policy. This inc ludes a category to distinguish the exchange arrangements of those countries that have no separate legal tender. The system presents members' exchange rate regimes against alternative monetary po l icy f ramewo rks with the in ten t ion of us ing both cr i ter ia as a way of prov id ing greater transparency in the c lass if ica t ion scheme and to i l lus t ra te that d i f f e r ent fo rms of exchange rate regimes cou ld be consistent w i th s im i lar monetary frameworks. The categories are exp la ined in the comp i la t ion guide. Members' exchange rate regimes are presented against alternative monetary policy frameworks in order to present the role of the exchange rate in broad economic policy and help identify potential sources of inconsistency in the monetary-exchange rate policy mix. The monetary policy frameworks listed are as follows. Exchange rate anchor The monetary authority stands ready to buy or sell foreign exchange at given quoted rates to maintain the exchange rate at its preannounced level or range (the exchange rate serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy). These regimes cover exchange rate regimes w i th no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, fixed pegs with or w i thout bands, and craw l ing pegs w i th or w i thout bands, where the rate of crawl is set in a forward- look ing manner. Monetary aggregate target The monetary au tho r i ty uses its ins t rumen ts to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate (reserve money, M l, M2, etc.) and the targeted aggregate becomes the nom in al anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation targeting framework This involves the pub l ic announcement of med ium - te rm nume r ical targets for inf la t ion, w i th an institutional commitment by the monetary au thor i ty to achieve these targets. Add i t ional key features inc lude increased commun ica t ion with the pub l ic and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary po l icymake rs and increased accountability of the central bank for ob ta in ing its in f la t ion objectives. Monetary po l icy dec is ions are guided by the deviation of forecasts of fu tu re inf la t ion f rom the announced in f la t ion target, w i th the in f la t ion forecast acting ( im p l i c i t ly or exp l ic i t ly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. IMF-supported or other monetary program This invo lves imp lemen ta t ion of monetary and exchange rate policy w i th in the confines of a framework that establishes floors for in terna t ional reserves and ceilings for net domestic assets of the central bank. As the ceiling on net domestic assets limits increases in reserve money through central bank operations, indicative targets for reserve money may be appended to this system. Other The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summa ry Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on S t a t us u n d er IMF A r t i c l es of Ag r e em ent A r t i c le V I II A r t i c le X IV E x c h a n ge ra te a r r a n g em e n ts Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Currency board a r rangement C o n v e n t i o n al pegged a r r ang em ent Pegged ex ch ange rate w i t h in h o r i z o n t al bands C r aw l i ng peg C r aw l i ng band Managed f l o a t i ng w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed pa th for the exchange rate Independen t ly f l o a t i ng E x c h a n ge ra te s t r u c t u re Dual exchange rates M u l t i p le exchange rates A r r ang em en ts for p aym en ts and receipts B i la te ral payments arrangemen ts P a ym e nt arrears Con t ro ls on paymen ts for i n v i s i b le t r an s a c t ions a nd c u r r e nt t ran s fe rs Proceeds from expo r ts a n d / or i n v i s i b le t r an s a c t ions R e p a t r i a t i on r e q u i r em e n ts Su r render requ i remen ts C a p i t al t r an s a c t ions Con t ro ls on: Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions P r o v i s i o ns s p e c i f ic to Commercial banks and other Institutional investors T o t a l u n m e b r o f n u o c i r t s e w t i h t h i s f a e t u r e 158 29 41 7 42 5 5 5 46 36 11 3 64 65 98 101 79 1 98 107 99 83 104 1 12 92 149 57 137 97 1 AO 91 *0 en c +3 c 03§< - [ A l n a b i a 03 <U OJO < J2o 5JD C A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b 0 03 C C 1) u? < A r m n e i a 1 < + A u s r t a i l a 03•c 3 < 0 A e z r a b j i n a T e h B a h a m s a + B h a r a i n , K i o d g n m o f + B g n a l s e d a h + B a r o d a b s + _ 2o3 & 1 5b & ® <u N 1 + * _C 'c CQ 0) A c 3 3 o5 + * o3 '> 1 B o s n i a d n a H e r v o g e z i a n A For key and foo tno tes, see page 18. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • — • • • — — — — — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countr ies1 first country page)2 13 £ M i d 3 S _ 1 & & - & I 1 8 a § •£ f " is | 8- 1 2§ «• '= "5- * E g. .£ •§ * fe 0 g ! „ * ._ -1 I 1 < l ^ i g Q ^ II | - s . - s . s. | .g 1 i i 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 i * .1 - I I i 1 i 1 1 1 I 1 1 ! 1 s 1 I I ! 1 o 2 2 3 3 3 c 5 c 5 c 5 w o 3 x : x : j= C Q O Q O Q C Q f f l P Q U U U U U U UU o o o o o o u X N W - ^ o o y a o— c r C t o -S U U U U U U U U U Q Q Q Q u J W U J U J U J U J UJ • • • • • A A AA AA 0 + +A • A • • A T + + + + * * • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • • • • • — • •- • • • • — • • I • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution„ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 14 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on Status u n d er IMF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le V I II Ar t ic le XIV Exchange rate a r rangemen ts Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i t h in horizontal bands C raw l ing peg Crawling band Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange rate s t ruc tu re Dual exchange rates M u l t i p le exchange rates A r rangemen ts for paymen ts and receipts Payment arrears Controls on paymen ts for inv is ib le transactions and c u r r e nt transfers Proceeds from exports and /or invisible transactions Repatriation requ iremen ts Surrender requirements Cap i tal t ransac t ions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment i Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other Institutional investors E T F i n l d n a 0 <u 2Pu CJc © 103O A T e h G a m b i a .2 £?o<u O - >> c 03 <D O © 03c 03 O O © G r a d a n e 0 _ G a u t e m a l a 1 '3 0 + G u i a e n - B i u a s s A 03 10 'o3 _ _ - - H u d n o r s a & 13 * TDc o3 8 2'•3c I s e n o d n i a <4-i 0 od c CTJ - O"2 TD C 03"e © <u 2C/3 >%"5 © For key and footnotes, see page 18. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — • • • • • • • — • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 15 1 1 -s CX £ ™ ° 1/5 & :E | & 1 "5 c •§ >• i* &o S | Q • S t .- i I g? * . 1 "2 2 I f c. § £ o. <o <u £ 3 rt <fl , ^ cd t« a* I , 1 1 1 1 f 1 1 ! i ! n ! J 1 ! ! i ! 1 . , 1 1 1 1 1 1! I ! 1 1 E a ^ S SCo 3 ^ 2 ' t t ' P, ^ ^ X ) - £ ^ c d c d c d c d c 3 c l c d K J c d e d < u . S O O O O > .» ^ t ^ j a j S a i S S ^ j a ^ ^ J i S a a a ^ s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s sI • • • • • • • 0 A • A + + +T + +T + +T T + • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • • • — • • • • . • • — • • • • • • — • — — • — • • — • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution° • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — — • • • • — 16 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on Status u n d er IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Article XIV Exchange rate arrangemen ts Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conven t ional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Crawling peg Craw l ing band Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate s t ruc tu re Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates A r rangemen ts for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payment arrears Controls on payments for invisible transactions and cu r rent transfers Proceeds from exports and /or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors I + N e t e h l r d n a s © N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e + N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a <u 002 A OS 'C o> 00z >>1o c C3 O + - 3 o3 £ 4 P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n 100 2 03 h P i l i p p i s e n •oc JS *o 0300 o e 3 a + R o m n a i a | 03 0) 1 C 03 1e* w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s 0 03i & 0 S . t V i n e c n t d n a t e h G r d a n e i s e n 0 - For key and footnotes, see page 18. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 17 U 0 .& S feb .« S o g? S 2 § VC w 3 x> •- ^ 1 •= | " H jj j j j i i i i i f i i i i . i i i i i i i lu iK i i i i l i il § § , 8 3 § f c f r . 2 . S £ £ ^ 5 o S . T : 1 3 § * * * k ; ^ § £ £ J ? o ; c i c / 3 c / 3 < y } c / 3 c / 3 i y } ( y 3 c / O G O c / } o o c r t ( y } c / } c / Q ( y o c n c o c / 3 c / ^ co j 5 ! 3 M : 2c • • • • • + A 0 4 A T + T + ++ ++ + * * • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • — • • • • • • — • • — — • — • • • • • • — • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • • — • • • • • — • • • — • • — • — • • • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 18 Status u n d er IMF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le V I II Ar t ic le XIV Exchange rate a r rangemen ts Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conven t ional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i t h in horizontal bands C r aw l ing peg C raw l ing band Managed f l o a t i ng with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independen t ly f lo a t ing Ex ch ange rate s t r u c t u re Dual exchange rates M u l t i p le exchange rates A r rangemen ts for paymen ts and receipts B i la teral payments arrangements Payment arrears Controls on paymen ts for inv is ib le transac t ions and cu r r ent transfers Proceeds from exports and /or inv is ib le transac t ions Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Surrender requ i remen ts Cap i tal transac t ions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions P rov i s ions spec if ic to: Commercial banks and other Institutional investors U n t i d e K i o d g n m 9 U n t i d e S t a t s e 0 X GO 3 D ^ 0 U k e b z i s t n a m m . 9 V a u n a t u 0 T B m m m m m m V e u z e n e l a , R p e . B o i l a v i r a n a o f 9 + 0 . 9 1 9 9 . m - Y e m n e , R b u p e i l o c f 9 9 a Z m b i a 9 9 Z i m b a b w e 9 + 9 . 9 Key and Footnotes • Ind ica tes that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. — Ind ica tes that data were not ava i lab le at time of pub l i c a t ion. • Indicates that the specific practice is not regulated. 4 Ind ica tes that member uses the currency of another member as legal tender. 0 A © + T * Indicates that member participates in the ECCU. Ind ica tes that the arrangement is pegged to the euro. Ind ica tes that member participates in the euro area. Ind ica tes that flexibility is l im i ted to a single currency. Indicates that the composite is a basket of other currencies. Ind ica tes that the country participates in the ERM II of the European monetary system. Ind ica tes other band arrangements. * 1 U su a l ly December 31 ,2002. 2 The l i s t ing inc ludes Hong Kong SAR, Aruba, and the Ne ther lands An t i l les. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. On September 4, 2002, new currency notes were issued replacing old currency at a conversion rate of 1 to 1,000. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the central bank, maintains a daily official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar and based on the average of the opening quotations of a number of important and reputable money traders operating in a free market in the form of a money bazaar. In principle, the DAB's buying/selling rates for foreign cash is within a margin of ±1%; in practice, however the DAB's transactions have been limited to buying, and thus have little impact on the exchange rate movements in the market. A second exchange rate, the official rate, is applied to transactions of the central government (mainly debt-service payments) and certain foreign currency incomes earned in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the free market exchange rate. The DAB posts rates for dollars, euros, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. These rates are calculated using the IMF's daily SDR rates for these currencies. On the basis of additional information, the exchange rate regime of Afghanistan was reclassified, effective January 1, 2002, to the category managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. n.a. n.a. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in operations in the official market or the commercial banking sector. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars, in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are specified in each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescriptions of currency requirements. Effec t ive March 21, 2003, the Afghani is designated as the currency to be used for all trans- actions and settlements of accounts unless the use of another currency is agreed by the parties concerned. The Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, and Russia. Some of these have been inoperative for several years. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No res tr ic t ions apply to transactions in the free exchange market. International security restrictions Payments arrears n.a. n.a. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bu l l ion, silver, and jewe lry requ ire permission from the DAB and the Ministry of Finance. Com- mercial exports of gold and silver jewe lry and other articles containing small quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by, or on behalf of, the monetary au thor i t ies. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers may br ing in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers en ter ing the Islamic State of Afghanistan are required to spend a m in imum of the equ iva lent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any un- spent amount on departure, subject to the m in imum conversion requirement. Foreign exchange accounts permitted E f fec t ive March 21, 2002, DAB approval is required for residents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts domestically or abroad. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts E f fec t ive March 21, 2002, DAB approval is required for nonresidents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget An annual import program drawn up by the M in is try of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the pub l ic sector import plan are made as circum- stances change. There is an indicative import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce. Financing requirements for imports n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Payments through the bank ing system for imports to countries with which the Islamic State of Afghan is tan has payments agreements may usua l ly be made only under LCs. Payments to other countries may be made under LCs, against b i l ls for collection, or against an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 21 unde r tak ing by the importer to import goods of at least an equ iva lent va lue to the payment made th rough the bank ing system. Except for pub l ic sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge m in imum import deposits with banks when they open LCs. The depos it ratios, based on the c . i .f. va lue of imports, are 20% for essential products and range f rom 30% to 60% for other products. All importers must obtain a license from the M in is try of Commerce to engage in import trade for statistical purposes. A license is issued on the basis of appropriate documents that have been approved by the Chamber of Commerce. For imports of nonessential goods, a 1% fee based on the import va lue is levied and is payable in dollars. The Chamber of Commerce charges a 2% fee to members and a 2.5% fee to nonmembers. The fee is based on the va lue of imports. Most b i la te ral agreements spec ify quan t i t ies (and sometimes prices) for the products to be traded. The impor ta t ion of certain drugs, l iquo r, arms, and ammun i t ion is prohibited on grounds of pub l ic policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of a few tex t i les and selected nones- sen t ial consumer goods is also prohibited. There are no quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions on most imports, but tar iff rates on most consumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from b i la teral accounts may be retained in b i la teral clearing do l lar ac- coun ts w i th the DAB. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the c lear ing rate app l icab le to that par t icu lar bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for three, six, or twelve mon ths, depending on the coun try of des t ina t ion. Dur ing the relevant per iod, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not inc luded on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange ho ld ings abroad must be repatriated and he ld in a foreign currency account with a bank in the Is lam ic State of A fghan is tan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds f rom exports of ra is ins, fresh f r u i t s, animal casings, skins, l ico r ice roots, medici- nal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n .a. Export licenses All exporters must obtain a license f rom the M in i s t ry of Commerce to engage in export trade for s ta t is t ical purposes. A l icense is issued on the basis of appropriate documents that have been approved by the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce levies a 5% fee based on the export va lue. The exportation of opium and museum pieces is prohib- i ted. Otherwise, con t rol is exercised on ly over exports to b i la te ral agreement countries. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. n .a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange for most pr iva te purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $1. A further charge of 1% on the total value of other convertible currencies is levied for permits for their export by authorized travelers. Yes. The limit for tourist travel is $2,000, except for private travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. The limit for business travel is $15,000. For medical treatment, the central bank levies a commission of Af 0.75 per $1. No informa- tion is available for other types of personal payments other than medical costs. Yes. Normally, the DAB grants $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must convert 60% of their foreign currency salaries into Afghanis at the off ic ial rate. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds n.a. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Effective March 21, 2002, in accordance with the Law on Domestic and Foreign Private Investment, the liquidation of investments in enterprises requires approval from the High Commission and the prior settlement of all accounts. n.a. n.a. Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Investment Committee. The law stipulates that foreign investment in the Islamic State of Afghanistan can take place only through jo int ventures, with foreign participation, and that an investment approved by the Investment Committee requires no further license to operate in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law includes the following provisions: (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly for capital goods); (3) ex- emption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from per- sonal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an ap- proved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among the prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law, as long as the prices are not more than 15% higher than those of foreign suppliers. Sales of investments in enterprises, as defined by the Domestic and Foreign Investment Law, must be approved by the Afghani High Commission and must be preceded by the settlement of all accounts. Capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of the total registered capital. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 23 Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2002 January 1. The exchange arrangement of Afghanistan was reclassifled to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category inde- pendently floating. September 4. New currency notes were issued replacing old currency at a conversion rate of 1 to 1,000. March 21. DAB approval was required for residents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts. March 21. DAB approval was required for nonresidents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts. Controls on capital and money market instruments March 21. In accordance with the Law on Domestic and Foreign Private Investment, the liquidation of investments in enterprises required approval from the High Commission and prior settlement of all accounts. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 21. The Afghani was designated as the currency to be used for all transactions and settlements of accounts unless the use of another currency is agreed by the parties concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of A lban ia is the A lban ian lek. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supp ly and demand for foreign exchange, and the Bank of A lban ia (BOA) occas iona l ly in tervenes in the exchange market on ly to smooth excessive f luc tua t ions of the exchange rate. The BOA calculates and an- nounces the da i ly average exchange rates for the dollar and 10 other major currencies and the prices of gold and silver. No margins are set between buy ing and se l l ing rates for the o f f ic ial exchange rate, but commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.2% to 2%, depend ing on the amount, for cashing trave ler's checks. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment for all merchandise trade is made in conver t ib le currencies. All transactions under bilateral payment agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing ac- counts is awaiting the outcome of negotiations. All contracts denominated and payable in foreign currencies are va l id. Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments arrangements Yes. C lear ing agreements Administration of control A lban ia ma in ta ins b i la te ral clearing agreements in nonconver t ib le currencies with Algeria, Bu lgar ia, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Egypt, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and Vietnam. A lban ia also maintains b i la teral c lear ing agreements in convertible currencies w i th Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, Turkey, Vietnam, and Serbia and Montenegro. The BOA is vested w i th the powers to administer exchange controls. The BOA is the only au thor i ty that has the r ight to (1) license, authorize, regulate, supervise, and revoke the licenses of foreign exchange market operations, as well as second-tier banks; (2) def ine the l im i ts of the ir activities; and (3) regulate and supervise foreign exchange operations and in terna t ional payments in order to prevent any participant from dominating the market and unde rm in ing the va lue of the lek through speculation. In accordance w i th anti-money launde r ing legislation, banks are required to maintain re- cords of all cash transactions in excess of lek 2 m i l l ion (approximately $14,000) and on all other transactions in excess of lek 70 m i l l ion (approximately $500,000), and to report these to the au thor i ty responsible for the prevention of money laundering. International security restrictions No. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrears Off ic ial ALBANIA 25 A lban ia has arrears on debts owed to China, Greece, the Russ ian Federation, Turkey, and w i th a number of o f f ic ial and commercial creditors. Off ic ial payments arrears to the Rus- sian Federation are subject to a Paris C lub Agreement, for which a bilateral rescheduling agreement was reached; this became effec t ive in March 2002. A bilateral rescheduling agreement w i th Ch ina also was reached and came in to force in September 2002. Albania has arrears on debts owed to private parties. Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. n.r. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Natural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign na tural persons may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount declared when en ter ing the country. A lban ian natural or ju r id ical persons are not allowed to export amounts larger than $20,000 or its equivalent. Na tural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Na tural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to import foreign currency and traveler's checks up to $10,000 or its equivalent in any other currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Residents —natural or jur id ical persons —may open and maintain foreign currency- denominated accounts w i th banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions abroad on ly w i th the prior ap- proval of the BOA, wh ich may control and mon i tor transactions a f fec t ing such accounts. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ALBANIA Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs For imports equal to or larger than $20,000 or its equivalent, the following documents must be submitted: (1) an application for carrying out the transaction as well as a declaration specifying in detail the nature of the transaction; (2) a contract and an invoice (or a pro forma invoice) issued by the natural or juridical person supplying the goods; and (3) a dec- laration that the underlying document has not been used to support previous transactions, which is to be issued by the natural or juridical person wishing to carry out the transaction with the bank. LCs, bank guarantees, or cash against documents should be used for the payment of im- ports equal to or in excess of $200,000 or its equivalent. Yes. Yes. Yes. Automatic licensing restrictions are applied on fuel products to support the implementation of domestic technical standards. The import of the following products is prohibited: (1) dangerous waste, such as toxic cor- rosives, residual waste from explosives, and radioactive materials; (2) military poisons, chemical weapons, and other strong poisons; (3) narcotics and psychotropic substances; and (4) animal products from countries infected with livestock diseases. Excise taxes on domestic and imported goods are unified. There are four customs tariff rates, which are applied to the c.i.f. value: zero, 2%, 10%, and 15%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses All private and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate the ir foreign exchange receipts. No. No. Export bans apply on copper and articles made thereof; works of art; arms and ammuni- tions, as well as parts and accessories therefor; and explosives and pyrotechnic products. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Supporting documents are required for transactions exceeding $20,000 or its equivalent. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 27 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases of these instruments abroad by residents require prior approval of the BOA. Trade in these instruments locally or abroad is subject to the control of the Albanian Securi- ties Commission. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Transactions in these instruments are subject to the control of the Albanian Securities Commission, but these are not yet regulated. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.r. Commercial banks may not, without the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except to banks and other financial institutions. Commercial banks may not, w i thout the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except to banks and other f inanc ial institutions. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 ALBANIA Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts The controls relate on ly to the purchase of land. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Prior BOA approval is required. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may not, w i thout the p r ior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except to banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 20% of the bank 's capital for a single currency and 30% for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n . r. n . r. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receiots March 31. B i la teral reschedu l ing agreements w i th the Russ ian Federation came into force. September 30. B i la te ral re schedu l ing agreements .with Ch ina came in to force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1997. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the d inar is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. No margin limits are imposed on the buy ing and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria (BOA) for the dinar against the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may provide forward cover to residents, but this has not taken place. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which no payment agreements are in force are made in convertible currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts may be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise, except that transactions w i th Morocco may be effected in dollars through special c lea r ing accounts ma in ta ined at the central banks of each country. Specified commercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are made through a Moroccan dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tunisian dinar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general ju r isd ic t ion over exchange controls. Au thor i ty for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to commercial banks and the Postal Administration. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade No. No. Res iden ts may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes, Unworked gold for indus tr ial and profess ional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la transformation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR); this agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metals. AGENOR is authorized to import and export any precious metals, inc lud ing gold. Gold used by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 ALGERIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may reexport any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Resident travelers may export foreign currency withdrawn from their foreign currency accounts up to the equivalent of €7,622.45 a trip for an unlimited number of trips a year. Resident travelers may reimport up to DA 200 a person. Nonresidents are not permitted to br ing in Algerian dinar banknotes. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes, but residents and nonresidents must declare them when they enter Algeria. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically These accounts may be freely credited with book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and domestic bank- to-bank book transfers between accounts held by individuals. These accounts may be debited freely for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system. They may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the BOA. Economic entities are also allowed to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, inc lud ing the retained portion of the ir export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign currency payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in limited cases, such as for embassies. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currency banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, as well as other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited w i thout restrictions to make transfers abroad, to export through withdrawals of foreign banknotes, and to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Final departure accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural person residing in Algeria who is not of Algerian nationality, and who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited with an amount equivalent to the holdings as of October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a m in is ter ial off icer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 31 Approval required Blocked accounts Outward transfers require individual approval from the BOA. Individual suspense accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. Except when otherwise indicated by the BOA, down payments for imports may not exceed 15% of the total value of imports. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry incurs expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Although not mandatory, domiciled banks may require from the importer, as part of their normal commercial operations, a deposit in dinars up to the fu ll value of the imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. All imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars valued at the official exchange rate. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A small number of imports are prohibited for religious or security reasons. Juridical and natural persons registered under the Commercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods without prior authorization. However, effective January 1, 2003, only joint stock companies with a minimum capital of DA 10 million owned by resident nationals of Algeria are authorized to import raw materials and manufactured goods for resale. (A transition period of six months is granted to enable economic agents to comply with the new arrangements.) These arrangements do not apply to concessionaries and wholesalers that have received Money and Credit Council approval. Effective January 1, 2002, imports are subject to tariffs of zero, 5%, 15%, and 30%. On this same date, the temporary additional duty on certain categories of goods that was introduced in Ju ly 2001 was reduced to 36% from 48%. It is to be completely phased out by January 2006. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days. Petroleum companies are subject to the same ru le, but proceeds may be deposited in a guaranteed account with a foreign correspondent bank of the BOA. Surrender requirements All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ALGERIA surrender 50% of the proceeds to the in te rbank market; the rema in ing portion may be retained in a foreign currency account. Exporters may use the funds in these accounts for imports or other payments per ta in ing to th e ir bus iness, or they may transfer the funds to ano ther foreign currency account. Proceeds f rom exports of nonhydrocarbons and nonm in e r a ls may be surrendered to commercial banks and other au thor ized participants in the in te rbank foreign exchange market. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requirements are not enforced in practice. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion P resh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are p roh ib i ted, and certain exports are proh ib i ted for social or cu l tu r al reasons regardless of des t ina t ion. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel The transfer abroad of dividends and interest is permitted, provided it is executed through an authorized intermediary. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment or transfer of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Profit remittances are permitted, provided tax obligations have been met. Authorization is to be granted by the exchange control au thor i t ies w i th in two mon ths of request. Transfer must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Residents traveling abroad receive an annual foreign exchange allowance, and pilgrims t rave l ing to Saudi Arabia receive an a l lowance in Saudi Arab ian riyals; the amount may be provided in the form of checks that are cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by nonres iden ts for travel abroad must be paid for w i th imported fore ign exchange. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The quantitative l im it is DA 15,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers of a l imony payments are permitted provided that the arrangement was made in an Algerian court and is enforceable in Algeria. BOA au thor iza t ion is required for payments re la t ing to f am i ly support payments; l im i ts are set on a case-by-case basis. The l im i ts for medical costs are DA 15,900 for adu l ts and DA 7,600 for children under 15 years of age. The l im it for studies abroad is DA 9,000 (prev ious ly DA 7,500) a month between September 1 and June 30. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers for f am i ly f i n a n c i al support and a l imony payments are set on a case-by-case basis. Foreign workers' wages Res iden ts of o ther coun t r ies wo rk ing in Algeria under techn ical cooperation programs for pub l ic enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of t h e ir salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 33 Other payments Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required for payments relating to membership, consulting, and legal fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements F i f ty percent of receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to ind iv idual approval by the BOA. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance w i th article 187 of the Law on Money and Credit (LMC), residents may not purchase real estate, monetary, or f inanc ial assets abroad using funds from ac t iv i t ies in A lger ia except as complementary to the ac t iv i t ies abroad. Nonresidents may invest in bonds or other debt securities. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these inves tmen ts are allowed, but they must be effected through an authorized intermediary. The transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of portfolio investments (bonds or other debt securities) on the stock exchange may be made freely, but transfers must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating na ture apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The con tro ls governing shares or other secur i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The con t ro ls gove rn ing shares or other secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 ALGERIA Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment is permitted freely except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from disinvestment following the closing or transfer of a business operation may be transferred abroad through banks or authorized intermediaries, subject to prior approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply, Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks and financial institutions may onlend foreign funds borrowed abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Banks and financial institutions are required to meet the following: (1) a maximum spread of 10% between their position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their counterpart funds in domestic currency; and (2) a maximum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, whichever is highest) for all foreign currencies and domestic currency resources. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January I. A new import tariff rate structure was introduced with rates of zero, 5%, 15%, and 30%. The temporary additional duty on certain categories of goods that was introduced in Ju ly 2001 was reduced to 36% from 48%. It is to be completely phased out by January 2006. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January 1. Joint stock companies with a minimum capital of DA 10 million owned by resident nationals of Algeria were authorized to import raw materials and manufactured goods for resale. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Angola is the Angolan kwanza. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The exchange rate of the kwanza is market determined. However, the Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA) intervenes actively in the foreign exchange market, allowing only modest depreciations of the official exchange rate. The BNA publishes a reference rate daily, which is computed as the transaction-weighted average of the day's rates. Authorized foreign exchange dealers (i.e., banks and exchange bureaus) may deal among themselves and with their customers at freely negotiated rates. Foreign exchange operations are subject to a stamp duty of 1.5%. Transactions between banking institutions or involving banknotes and traveler's checks are exempt from this duty. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with other countries may be made through bank transfers, LCs, or financing and banking agreements. Yes. An agreement with Brazil is in effect. There are agreements with Portugal and Spain. The BNA is the exchange authority and may delegate its powers to other entities that are authorized to engage in foreign exchange activities. All capital transactions and invisible operations exceeding $50,000 or its equivalent are subject to prior BNA authorization. The BNA has authorized commercial banks to carry out certain transactions and invisible opera- tions not exceeding $50,000 or its equivalent in the foreign exchange market. Effective February 7, 2003, foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions may deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current invisible operations of a private nature (Central Bank Instructive No. 2/2003). These bureaus may buy foreign currency from residents and nonresident natural and juridical persons, and sell foreign currency to residents up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip, subject to the presentation of a passport with visa of country of destination (or residence identification card) and a ir l ine tickets. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 ANGOLA In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents are permitted to ho ld and trade gold on ly in the form of jewe l ry, Controls on external trade Impor ts and exports of go ld —bo th coins and bu l l ion — a re the monopoly of the BNA. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are p roh ib i ted. Residents are permitted to take out up to the equ iva lent of $ 10,000 in foreign exchange. They may take out amoun ts exceeding this l im it on ly if they present exchange purchase documents, including statements regarding the reason for the purchase. When leaving Ango la, nonres iden ts are allowed to take out up to $5,000; amounts exceeding th is l im it may be taken out, if they were declared upon arrival in the country. The export and reexport of banknotes and traveler's checks by banking institutions require a prior au tho r iza t ion of the governor of the BNA. Imports of domestic currency are prohibited. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks that a resident may b r ing in to the coun try; for non res iden ts, amounts in excess of $5,000 must be declared upon arrival. Bank ing in s t i tu t ions are free to import banknotes and t rave le r 's checks, but they must submit a mon th ly report to the BNA. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Checkbooks may not be issued against accounts of ju r id ical and natural persons. These accoun ts may be credited w i th fore ign currency or any o ther in s t rumen ts accepted interna- t i o n a l ly and accrued interest. These accounts may be debited w i th w i thd rawal or sale of foreign exchange to settle imports or capital payments, as allowed by law. Transfers be- tween these accounts are permitted, but overdraf ts are not. A f ter pr ior BNA approval, ju r id i c al persons are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts that may be credited w i th t h e ir export receipts to pay for imports of goods and services and to make debt service payments. For na tural persons, no approval is requ ired for ho ld ing these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accoun ts may be cred i ted w i th fo re ign cu r rency impo r ted f rom abroad, w i th the ac- crued interest, or w i th sums from nonresidents' type A domestic currency accounts. They Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts ANGOLA 37 may be debited for the withdrawal or sale of foreign currency, payments for foreign cur- rency expenditures, or the repatriation of amounts authorized by the BNA. Non re s iden ts may open two types of domestic currency accounts: type A and type B. The type A account may be credited w i th the proceeds from sales of funds from foreign ex- change accounts and, after ob ta in ing pr ior BNA authorization, with receipts from the non- resident's activities in Angola. These accounts may be debited for payments of local ex- penses and against purchases of foreign currency to be deposited in a foreign currency account held by the same entity. The type B account may only be credited w i th receipts from the nonresident's activity in the country (when authorized by the BNA), and may only be debited for payment of local expenses. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses E f fec t ive August 9, 2002, the fo l low ing requ i re preshipment inspection: imports by gov- ernment i n s t i t u t i o ns and p u b l ic companies and imports of boats, buses, mechanical accesso- ries, new and used cars, receptors and transistors, objects of broadcasting, telecommunica- tions devices, telex equipment, televisions, trucks, and scrap metal. Imports by juridical and natural persons of goods valued at more than the equivalent of $5,000 and $10,000, respec- tively, also requ ire preshipment inspection. Imports of goods of lesser value are also subject to inspection if the f r equ en cy is more than once every quarter. There are restrictions on imports of currency, toxic products, and certain drugs. Imports of arms and ammun i t ion for personal use are subject to authorization by the Ministry of the Interior. Imports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the REM (entry merchan- dise registration) system for statistical purposes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tar iff system cons is ts of e ight rates: 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, and 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly The stamp tax is collected th rough the exchange system. Oil products and der iva t ives may be imported only by the public oil company. Arms and ammun i t ion for warfare may be imported on ly by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Domestic oil compan ies must su r render all the ir export proceeds to the BNA. Foreign oil compan ies are a l lowed, w i th BNA au tho r i z a t ion, to retain the ir export receipts abroad for paymen ts of impo r ts of goods and services, interest and profits transfer, and the amortiza- t ion of cap i ta l. These compan ies must use funds from abroad for payment of royalties, taxes, and local expenses. Foreign exchange earnings by the non-oil sector must be surren- dered to domestic banks. Diamond companies are allowed to retain in local banks a per- centage of the receipts of exports for payments of imports of goods and services. They may also retain part of the ir receipts abroad in escrow accounts, with BNA authorization, as a guarantee against foreign borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 ANGOLA Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the RSM (exit merchandise registration) system for statistical purposes. Reexports of goods other than personal belong- ings are prohibited. Exports of arms, ammunition, and ethnological collections are prohib- ited. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical ob- jects, and petroleum. Export taxes Export taxes consist of six rates: 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, and 10%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Effective February 7, 2003, banks must obtain BNA authorization in order to effect pay- ments for invisible transactions in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent for each transaction (Central Bank Instructive No. 4/2003). Service contracts with nonresidents in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent are subject to licensing. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors must obtain MOF authorization to remit profits and dividends, provided the investment in the resident company exceeds $250,000 or its equivalent. Residents may, upon presentation of a passport and an airline ticket, purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions as follows: for personal travel, the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip; for business travel, a maximum of $500 a day for up to 30 days; for educational, scientific, or cultural purposes, $2,000 a person a month (limited to residents who are temporarily abroad); and for medical treatment, a maximum of $ 10,000 (prior to February 7, 2003, $5,000) upon presentation of medical certificate without invoice; amount is unlimited if paid directly to the bank account of the hospital. Prior approval is required for the payment of pensions in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent. Up to the equivalent of $2,000 a month may be authorized to Angolans or foreigners resid- ing abroad who are direct descendants of and financially dependent on residents of Angola, provided that they are under 18 or over 60 years of age, are students, or are incapable of working. Yes. Only banks may issue credit cards. Use of credit cards abroad is limited to the equivalent of $10,000. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 39 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Service earnings must be surrendered to the banks, unless the provider is authorized by the BNA to retain a certain proportion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Foreign investment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acquisition of equity, total or partial takeover of operations, and lending related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law as well as the provi- sions of foreign exchange legislation and regulations. Implementation is the responsibility of the Foreign Investment Institute. Foreign investments in the areas of petroleum produc- tion, diamond mining, and financial institutions are governed by separate legislation. Effec- tive February 7, 2003, all capital transfers are subject to BNA licensing (Central Bank In- structive No. 1/2003). All capital transactions must be conducted through authorized banks and require BNA approval and licensing for imports and exports of capital. Banks may perform a few capital transactions, such as donations and inheritance from abroad, without BNA approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ANGOLA Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Operations are subject to l icens ing for statistical purposes only. By residents to nonresidents Suppliers' credits must be reported to the BNA. To residents from nonresidents Supp l ie rs' credits must be reported to the BNA. F in an c i al cred i ts By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Pu rchase l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts Sale l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowmen ts, inh e r i t an c e s, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Se t t lement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Angolan citizens are permitted to invest abroad, in accordance with the Exchange Control Law. Foreign inves tment is proh ib i ted in the fo l low ing areas: (1) defense, internal public order, and state security; (2) central bank ing and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state. W i th p r ior approval of the MOF, foreign investors are guaranteed the right to transfer abroad the proceeds of the sale of investments, inc lud ing gains and amounts owed to them after payments of taxes due. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of g am b l i ng and pr ize ea rn ings Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 41 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effective February 7, 2003, the reserve requirement for demand deposits in both local and foreign cu r renc ies is 10% (Central Bank Ins t ruc t ive No. 08/2003). The reserve requirement coefficient is calculated weekly, based on the average deposits held the previous week. Prior to this date, demand deposits in local currency were subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. Up to 5% of the reserve requirement base may be held in securities or treasury bonds of the BNA. The coefficient of the reserve requirement for central government de- posits in local and fore ign currencies is 100%. Liquid asset requirements The l iqu id asset requirement is 50% of the foreign exchange portfolio. Credit controls Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange only to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E f fec t ive Feb rua ry 7, 2003, banks may ho ld da i ly foreign exchange positions of up to 20% of their own funds (Central Bank Instructive No. 05/2003). Prior to this date, banks could hold daily fore ign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of $500,000; for foreign ex- change bureaus, the amount was up to $150,000. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n .r. Imports and import payments August 9. The p re sh ipment inspec t ion system was revised. Changes During 2002 Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 7. Foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange trans- actions may deal on ly in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current invisible op- erations of a pr iva te na tu re (Central Bank Ins truc t ive No. 2/2003). Foreign exchange bu- reaus may buy foreign currency from residents and nonresident individuals and juridical persons, and sell foreign currency to residents up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 ANGOLA Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions trip, subject to presentation of passports with visa of country of destination (or residence identification card) and airline tickets. February 7. Banks must obtain BNA authorization in order to effect payments for invis- ibles in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent for each transaction (Central Bank Instructive No. 4/2003). February 7. The limit for medical treatment was increased to the equivalent of $10,000 from $5,000 without an invoice. There is no limit if paid directly to the bank account of the hospital. February 7. All capital transfers are subject to BNA licensing (Central Bank Instructive No. 1/2003). All capital transactions must be conducted through authorized banks and re- quire BNA approval and licensing for imports and exports of capital. Banks may perform a few capital transactions, such as donations and inheritance from abroad, without BNA approval. February 7. The reserve requirement for demand deposits in both local and foreign curren- cies is 10% (Central Bank Instructive No. 08/2003). The reserve requirement coefficient is calculated weekly, based on the average deposits held the previous week. Prior to this date, demand deposits in local currency were subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. Up to 5% of the reserve requirement base may be held in securities or treasury bonds of the BNA. The coefficient of the reserve requirement for central government deposits in local and foreign currencies is 100%. February 7. Banks may hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to 20% of their own funds (Central Bank Instructive No. 05/2003). Prior to this date, banks could hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of $500,000; for foreign exchange bu- reaus, the amount was up to $150,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A foreign exchange levy of 1 % is applied on purchases of foreign currency. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangemen ts Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the CARICOM. Yes. The MOF applies exchange controls to all foreign currency transactions. However, up to the equivalent of EC$25 0,000 in foreign currency may be purchased without MOF ap- proval. On May 3, 2002, the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations. These measures were taken in accordance w i th UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. No. Domestic currency There are restrictions on exports of domestic currency outside the ECCU. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Foreign currency On impor ts Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ex te rnal accoun ts may be opened, espec ia l ly in tou r is t -o r ien ted indus t r ies or in export trade whe re rece ip ts are p r im a r i ly in fore ign currency and a large numb er of inpu ts are imported or f inanced in fo re ign currency. Resident Accounts H e ld d om e s t i c a l ly Approval required He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible in to foreign currency Yes. Comme rc ial banks are requ i red to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a mon th ly basis. n .a. n . r. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted App roval r equ i r ed Ex ternal accoun ts may be ma in ta ined in any currency and may be credited w i th receipts f rom sales of merchand ise (whe ther f rom export-oriented or local produc t ion) or from rem i t tances. Commercial banks are requ i red to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a m o n t h ly basis. Domestic currency accounts These accoun ts may be m a in t a in ed, but p r ior approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requ irements for imports n .a. No. Documen ta t ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports D om i c i l i a t i on r e q u i r em e n ts Letters of credit Paymen ts for au tho r ized impor ts are permitted upon app l ica t ion and submission of docu- men ta ry ev idence. Up to EC$250,000 a transaction may be purchased in foreign currency w i t h o ut MOF approva l. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Cer ta in goods requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. An- t igua and Ba rbuda fo l lows the CARICOM ru les of o r ig in. Open general l icen ses Import taxes and/or tariffs Most goods may be f ree ly imported under OGLs granted by the MOF and the M in i s t r ies of Indu s t ry and Commerce. Customs du ty rates range f rom zero to 35% for near ly all items. E f fec t ive February 28, 2002, the fou r th phase of the CARICOM CET is app l ied. As a re su l t, ta r i f fs on imports f rom CAR ICOM coun t r ies range f rom zero to 20% (previously, the m a x im um ta r i ff was 25%). There are no customs du t ies on a numb er of items, i n c l u d i ng m i lk and pou l try. Some goods, i n c l u d i ng bas ic foods and ag r icu l tu ral goods, are exempt from customs du t ies. Other e x em p t i o ns for mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and raw ma te r ia ls are granted on a case-by-case bas is. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 45 State import monopoly There is a monopo ly on imports of vege tab le and p e t ro l eum p roduc ts. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Other Export licenses Export taxes n .a. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place w i t h in the bonded area. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for i n v i s i b l es (related to au tho r ized impo r ts) exceed ing EC$250,000 r e q u i re p r ior approval for cer ta in categories, except for paymen ts for f r e igh t, in su r an c e, u n l o a d i ng and storage costs, adm in i s t ra t ive expenses, comm iss ions, and p ro f i ts and d iv idend s, wh ich are not subject to controls. Profits may be remitted in f u ll after comp l iance w i th corporate income tax payments. Ver i- f ica t ion is not app l ied in practice; the a u t h o r i t i e s, however, can dec ide to unde r take such ve r i f ica t ion. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the amor t iza t ion of loans or dep rec ia t ion of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits App roval is requ i red o n ly for amoun ts exceed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the t ran s fer of pensions. Payments related to f am i ly ma in tenance and a l imony are a l lowed if prov ided for in the con trac t. For paymen ts re la ted to med ical expenses and s tud ies abroad, app roval on a case-by-case basis is r equ i r ed o n ly for amoun ts exceed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of EC$250,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test These rem i t tances are a l lowed, if p rov ided for in the con t rac t. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 Other payments Prior approval ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Payments for consulting and legal fees are allowed, if provided for in the contract. Quantitative limits The l im it for subscr ip t ions and membership fees is ECS 10,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes may be done in phases over time by the F inanc ial Secretary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landho ld ing license is required, and the purchase must be approved by the cabinet. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws As a result of laws governing offshore financial institutions (1) the International Financial Sector Au tho r i ty was created, with respons ib i l i ty for l icens ing offshore f inanc ial institu- tions; (2) there are annual inspections of offshore f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions; (3) the m in imum capital requ irement for offshore banks is US$5 m i l l ion, of wh ich US$1.5 m i l l ion is to be deposited in the domestic bank ing system; (4) all bank directors are to be natural persons, at least one of whom must be a national of Antigua and Barbuda (thus making bank owner- ship more transparent); and (5) offshore banks are allowed to extend credit to the An t iguan and Barbudan government. MOF approval is required for these transactions. Loans are subject to a 3% stamp duty, n .a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 47 Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts May 3. The authorities of Antigua and Barbuda notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations, in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and import payments February 28. The fourth phase of the CARICOM CET was applied, reducing the maximum tariff on CARICOM imports to 20% from 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of May 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Exchange rate structure Un i tary Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of A rg en t ina is the A rg en t ine peso. P r ior to J anu a ry 5, 2002, a un i t a ry exchange rate was in operation. Effec t ive th is date, a du al exchange rate system was in t roduced, cons is t ing of an o f f ic ial exchange rate of Arg$1.4 per US$1, w h i ch applied to certain trade and f inanc ial transactions, and the float- ing market exchange rate, th rough wh i ch all other transactions were effected. On Feb- rua ry 1 1, 2002, the o f f i c i al exchange rate was e l im ina ted and the dual market was un i f ied. The exchange rate of the A r g e n t i ne peso is determined in the interbank market in wh ich the Central Bank of Argen t ina (BCRA) plays an active role. Prior to the end of 2001, the exter- nal va lue of the peso was pegged to the do l lar under a currency board type of arrangement. Exchange rates of o ther currenc ies were based on the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the dol- lar in markets abroad. Between Janua ry 5, 2002, and February 10, 2002, a dual exchange system was in effec t, con s i s t ing of an o f f i c i al and a f loa t ing exchange rate. E f fec t ive Feb- rua ry 11, 2002, the au tho r i t i es o f f i c i a l ly allowed the peso to float in a un i f ied market, but the BCRA in te rvenes in the market f r equ en t ly. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement of A rgen t ina has been rec lass if ied to the category managed f loa t ing with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category currency board arrangement. On December 26, 2002, the re ta il b u y i ng and s e l l i ng of U.S. do l lar banknotes on behalf and on the in- structions of the BCRA were suspended. No. Effective January 5, 2002, a 7.5% export subsidy that was applicable to most exports was abo l i shed. Most d e r iv a t ive ope ra t ions in the forward market are subject to prior BCRA approval. Ef- fec t ive March 18, 2002, forward exchange operations with foreign counterparts requ ire p r ior au tho r i z a t ion f rom the BCRA. On A p r il 29, 2002, the pr ior au tho r iza t ion requirement was l i f t ed for transfers abroad to make payments for forward operations between foreign currencies. Effec t ive June 3, 2002, th is requirement was extended to include forward opera- t ions w i th local coun te rpa r ts. E f f e c t ive J u ne 5, 2002, the t ran s fer of f u n ds to settle forward contracts in commodity prices is permitted f ree ly. E f fec t ive September 18, 2002, f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns may trade among themselves in nonde- l ive rab le fu tu r es (NDFs) exchange contracts in self-regulated markets that are to be settled in domestic cu r rency. E f f e c t ive March 13, 2003, domestic f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may settle th e ir ove rdue f u t u re contracts w i th un re la ted foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. As of March 22, 2003, p r ior au tho r i z a t ion is requ i red to settle forwards and other f inanc ial derivatives con- tracts abroad. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Transac t ions w i th c o u n t r i es w i th w h i ch there are no paymen ts agreements must be settled in free ly conve r t ib le currencies. Effec t ive September 6, 2002, there is a mon th ly ceiling of the e q u i v a l e nt of US$100,000 on fore ign exchange purchases by residents for var ious purposes. Th is l im it was raised to US$150,000 on Janua ry 2, 2003; to US$200,000 on March 13, 2003; to US$300,000 on March 27, 2003; and to US$500,000 on May 6, 2003. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 49 Controls on the use of domestic currency Domestic banknotes and coins may be used for buy ing fo re ign exchange for any purpose, in accordance w i th BCRA au tho r i z a t ion requ i remen t s. Demand and savings t ime deposits in domes t ic cu r rency may be used to buy fo re ign ex- change on ly for in terna t ional t ransac t ions permitted by the BCRA. Demand deposits may be used for pu rcha s ing fore ign exchange for the f o l l ow i ng purposes: (1) payments for im- ports of goods and services in accordance w i th BCRA regu la t ion s; (2) other payments for services abroad, prov ided that de ta i led documen ta t ion is subm i t ted when the na tu re of the service for wh ich payments are to be made has no d irect r e l a t i o n s h ip to the ac t iv i t ies of the firm; (3) payments for profits and d iv idends, subject to submission of a statement by a Profess ional Counc i l-cer t if ied external aud i tor and BCRA approva l; (4) payments of f i n a n- cial obligations with respect to pr inc ipal and interest; and (5) payments for expenditures related to pa r t ic ipa t ion in trade fa i rs and e x h i b i t i o ns for export promo t ion purposes. Effective December 12, 2002, foreign exchange se l l ing operations in the free market may be effected against peso banknotes, a personal check, or a deb i t. P r ev iou s ly, these transac- tions were subject to the "corralito" account arrangement, wh ich restricted the flow of funds ou ts ide the bank ing system by l im i t i ng cash w i thd rawa ls and d i r e c t ing domestic payments in to accounts w i t h in the b ank ing system. Reprogrammed deposits (CEDROS) under the frozen t ime depos i ts "corralon" may be used on ly for a few domes t ic payments and t rans fe rs. For current transactions and payments Yes. Use of fore ign exchange among residents Transactions in fo re ign currenc ies are pe rm i t ted, and con trac ts based the reon are l eg a l ly enforceable. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements W i th in the framework of the mu l t i l a t e r al c lea r ing system of the LAI A, payments between A rgen t ina and other LA IA coun tr ies are settled v o l u n t a r i ly th rough payments agreements and a reciprocal credit mechan ism. A rgen t ina also has agreements w i th Cuba, Ma lays ia, and Russ ia. Paymen ts between Argen- t ina and these coun t r ies are settled on a v o l u n t a ry basis th rough accoun ts opened w i th the BCRA and the o ther cen tral banks concerned, w i th the excep t ion of Cuba, where se t t lement th rough the accoun ts spec if ied in the agreements is ob l iga to ry. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade All exchange t ransac t ions must be carried out th rough sp e c i a l ly au tho r ized en t i t ie s. These authorized entities inc lude banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and f in an c i al companies. Each type of i n s t i t u t i on is subject to separate regu la t ions. Res t r ic t ions are imposed on cu r rent paymen ts w i th respect to Iraq, L ibya, and Serbia and Mon teneg ro. E f fec t ive March 27, 2003, payments of external arrears up to US$5 m i l l ion are permitted und er certain cond i t ions. Yes. Yes. Res iden ts may ho ld gold co ins and gold in any o ther form in A r g e n t i na or abroad. F i n a n c i al institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of co ins or gold bars among themse lves, and may buy such gold f rom t h e ir c l ien t s, as we ll as o ther p rec ious metals, the market va lue of w h i ch is based on the d a i ly l ist prices of ma jor transac t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 ARGENTINA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Imports of gold bars are not restricted. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.5% and a sales tax. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad with prior BCRA authorization. Proceeds from gold exports must be received in convertible currencies. Exports of coins and precious metals exceeding US$10,000 or its equivalent require BCRA approval. Exports of U.S. dollars exceeding $10,000 requ ire prior BCRA authorization. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted E f fec t ive February 3, 2002, authorized banks may open demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies and time deposits in dollars and euros on behalf of selected entities, provided that identification requirements (intended, inter alia, to prevent money laundering) have been met. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirements On January 10, 2002, minimum financing requirements were imposed on import payments that may be made at the off ic ial exchange rate; effective February 11, 2002, the minimum f inanc ing requirements have been extended to the un i f ied market. Consumer goods may be f u l ly financed abroad for periods of 45, 90, or 180 days, depending on the type of product, and capital goods with values of less than the equivalent of US$200,000 may be financed abroad up to 30% of their value, and the remainder may be financed abroad for a minimum period of 180 days after shipment —capital goods valued at more than US$200,000 may be financed abroad up to 20% of their value, and the remainder may be financed abroad for a m in imum of 360 days after shipment. E f fec t ive March 25, 2002, advance payments could be made for most imports when the importer has funds available in foreign currencies (cash or deposits abroad), provided that goods arrived in Argentina within 180 days of payments (a longer time period applied for capital goods). This requ irement was eliminated on September 5, 2002. Exporters may make advance payments for imports up to 20 days w i th their export receipts. On May 3, 2002, advance payments for raw materials and intermediate goods were allowed. Effective ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 51 November 21, 2002, capital goods less than the equivalent of US$20,000 (f.o.b. value) in value may be paid in advance fully; capital goods between US$20,000 and US$100,000 may be paid in advance up to 30% of the import value and the rest must be financed abroad for a minimum period of 90 days after shipping; capital goods between US$100,000 and US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 30% of import value and must be financed abroad for a minimum period of 180 days; and amounts exceeding US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 20% of import value and the rest financed abroad for a minimum period of 360 days (an additional 15% may be prepaid upon bills of lading). Effective De- cember 26, 2002, advance payments for capital goods may be made, and effective Janu- ary 7, 2003, advance payments may be made for all goods. No. Import licenses are required for paper products and footwear. Restrictions are in force for security, hygiene, and public health reasons. OGLs are required for a limited list of products. Quantitative restrictions are applied to automobile sector products from MERCOSUR countries and to performance sports footwear from non-MERCOSUR countries. Nontariff barriers are not applied to intra-MERCOSUR trade. Argentina, however, applies a special regime to sugar imports with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agree- ment on a common regime for this sector. Imports of secondhand clothing, tires, and some capital goods are prohibited. Argentina and MERCOSUR apply a CET to imports from the rest of the world that encom- passes all products. CET rates currently range from zero to 20%. A number of products are subject to an additional tariff of 1.5%. A CET of 16% applies to a list of computer and telecommunications products until 2006. The maximum import tariff for non-MERCOSUR trade is 28%.The national list now covers 100 products and the import tariffs on some capi- tal goods may be reduced, in some cases, to 3% or, exceptionally, to zero. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated and sold in the foreign exchange market within 60 to 360 days, depending on the types of products involved (in accordance with the terms stipu- lated by the Secretariat of Industry, Commerce, and Mines). Effective December 26, 2002, proceeds from exports of capital and finished goods may be repatriated within up to two years if they are covered by a guarantee from banks abroad in the form of LCs or letters of guarantee. In addition to the term stipulated by the Secretariat, the BCRA may stipulate a repatriation period o f t en business days. On March 25, 2003, this period was reduced to five business days, and subsequently it was extended to 30 business days on March 27, 2003, and to 90 days on May 6, 2003. Export proceeds need not be repatriated for (1) ex- ports that have received specific exemptions under law on executive decrees and have been contracted with the government; (2) exports that are to be used to settle export advances or service principal and interest on export financing and prefinancing loans that (i) are fi- nanced or guaranteed by local financial institutions, regardless of their source of financing; (ii) were contracted before December 6, 2001 (subject to BCRA approval); or (iii) were disbursed between December 6, 2001, and January 10, 2002, through the official foreign exchange market (since January 11, 2002) or through the unified and unrestricted exchange market (since February 11, 2002); (3) exports that have been earmarked to service properly recorded financial contracts in effect on or since November 30, 2001 (subject to BCRA approval); and (4) proceeds from exports that will be used to repay principals on financial liabilities to foreign entities outstanding on November 30, 2001, that have been restructured on terms exceeding five years as of each repayment day (subject to BCRA approval). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 ARGENTINA Surrender requ iremen ts E f fec t ive May 17, 2002, exporters were requ ired to surrender export proceeds to the BCRA at the market rate (wh ich is spec if ied in Communication A3619). Effec t ive May 31, 2002, export proceeds exceeding the equ iva lent of US$1 m i l l ion had to be surrendered to the BCRA at market exchange rates (p rev ious ly, surrender to the BCRA was voluntary). E f fec t ive June 18, 2002, the thresho ld of surrender to the BCRA was lowered to US$500,000, and was fu r th er reduced, on September 3, 2002, to US$200,000. On Jan- ua ry 16, 2003, th is th resho ld was raised to US$1 m i l l ion, and the surrender requirement for rece ip ts from export f i n a n c i ng and advance payments was e l im ina ted. U n t il December 2, 2002, pesos received by exporters in exchange for export-related foreign currency had to be deposited in sight deposits subject to "corralito" restrictions. E f fec t ive May 6, 2003, the surrender requ i rement for export proceeds was eliminated, ex- cept for those expor ts sub ject to surrender requ i rement through February 1, 2002. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are requ i red for exports of arms, sens i t ive goods, and m i l i ta ry materials. There are q u a n t i t a t i ve re s t r ic t ions on exports of protected animal species. A 5% export du ty is app l ied to treated and untreated leather, and a 3.5% du ty is applied to cotton, f lax, g roundnu ts, soybeans, sun f lower seeds, and turnips. Effec t ive March 4, 2002, the export du ty rates have been raised to 5-20% f rom 5-12% and they are applied to all exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Interest paymen ts on comme rc ial credits do not requ i re prior approval. Between March 25 and December 31, 2002, interest payments on f inanc ial credits by the private sector re- qu i red prior approval except for payments for (1) new f inanc ing received in the foreign exchange market af ter Feb rua ry 11, 2002; (2) debts obtained from international organiza- t ions; (3) debts obtained from banks par t ic ipa t ing in the f in an c ing of inves tment projects cofmanced by in t e rn a t ion al organizations; (4) debts obtained from o f f ic ial credit agencies and export credit companies that are members of the Un ion of Credit Investment Insurers or guaranteed by them; and (5) debts obtained from mu l t i la te ral cred it organizations. From September 5, 2002, to May 5, 2003, prior approval was required to make interest payments on bonds and f in an c i al ob l iga t ions on local government debt. Between Febru- ary 11, 2002, and Janua ry 7, 2003, pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the BCRA was required for re- m i t tance of p ro f it and d iv idends. E f fec t ive Janua ry 2, 2003, the transfer requirement on d iv idend payments was l i f t ed. E f fec t ive Janua ry 8, 2003, payments of re insu rance premiums requ ire prior authorization f rom the Na t ional Supe r in tendency of Insu rance upon presentation of certification regard- ing the reason and the amount to be transferred. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements E f f e c t ive Feb rua ry 1 1, 2002, proceeds f rom exports of services must be repatriated and e i ther sold in the fo re ign exchange market or deposited in a foreign exchange account w i t h in 15 days of rece ip t, and the BCRA may s t ipu la te a repatriation period of 10 business days. On March 25, 2002, t h is t ime period was shortened to 5 business days; it was subse- qu en t ly extended to 30 bus iness days on March 27, 2003, and to 90 business days on May 6, 2003. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 53 Surrender requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Un t il December 2, 2002, pesos received by an exporter in exchange for export-related for- eign currency had to be deposited in sight deposits subject to "corralito" restrictions. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions As a general ru le, repayments of principal of external loans are subject to prior BCRA au- thorization with the following exceptions: (1) external payments on loans to privileged creditors (i.e., creditors listed in subparagraphs 5(b) to 5(f) of Communication A 3878, in c lud ing in terna t ional organizations); (2) external payments on new loans (a loan is con- sidered new for these purposes when the foreign currency originated in that loan entered the Argen t ine free exchange market (MULC) on or af ter February 11, 2002; (3) external payments on loans that have been renegotiated under the terms set forth in Communication A 3843, as amended, applying to debt restructurings agreed between debtor and creditor on or after January 2, 2003, as long as the re s t ruc tu r ing agreement provides for (i) up f ront cash payments of no more than 10% and payments of 5% in 6 mon ths and 5% in 12 mon ths (20% the first year); and (ii) the maintenance of an average maturity of the rema in ing amounts of no less than five years more than the average maturity of the debt at the restruc- tu r ing date. In addition, the loan must have its o r ig ins in one of the specific f inanc ial trans- actions listed in subparagraph 1.4 of Commun ica t ion A 3843; and (4) transfers of foreign currency w i th in the framework set forth by Communication A 3872 (Fiduciary Fund), with respect to loans contracted prior to February 10, 2002, w i th or ig inal or refinanced maturity dates fa l l ing on or before December 31, 2002, the debtor can access to the MULC (for 60 calendar days as of January 27, 2003) for up to 5% of the principal amount of the loan in order for a F iduc iary Fund to be administered by a f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion (trustee). The bene- f ic ia ry of the fund is the debtor and each bene f ic ia ry may cons t i tu te on ly one f iduc ia ry fund. The f u n d 's resources may be used to re-enter the MULC (with prior authorization of the BCRA) and/or to make external payments on loans that were contracted prior to Febru- ary 10, 2002, and that have been res truc tured in accordance w i th the terms referred to in (4) above. If the f u n d 's resources are to be used to make external payments of loans d i f fe r- ent from those restructured, prior authorization of the BCRA is required. Effective June 3, 2002, the fo re ign borrowing operations of the non fmanc ial pub l ic sector in the forms of bonds and f inanc ial loans —to the extent that they do not cons t i tu te the cap i ta l iza t ion of interest —must be contracted at terms of at least 90 calendar days. A 0.4% f inanc ial transac- t ions tax is lev ied on credit and deb it transac t ions of banks. Effective September 3, 2002, automatic access to the foreign exchange market is available to those enterprises whose debt has been res truc tured and ra t i f ied by the courts when (1) the agreement w i th cred i tors invo lves the re f inanc ing of debts that are due and unpa id, at aver- age terms fo l low ing signature of the agreement of not less than four years for principal payment; (2) a grace period of at least two years; (3) interest payments made quar ter ly or more f requen t ly; (4) the annual interest rate agreed to does not exceed in annual terms the equivalent of the six-month LIBOR plus 3%; and (5) waivers, forgiveness, or capitalization operations reduc ing the amount of the debt by at least 40% of its nom inal value. E f fec t ive Janua ry 2, 2003, repayments of p r inc ipal on non fmanc ial private sector debts no longer require BCRA prior approval, provided that the amount paid by the original financial debtor did not exceed a mon th ly equ iva lent of US$150,000 ( th is ce i l ing was raised to US$300,000 on Feb rua ry 13, 2003, and to US$1 m i l l ion on March 13, 2003). E f fec t ive February 13, 2003, the pr ior approval requ i rement for servicing of non fmanc ial private sector debts was abolished, provided that servicing related to financial debts did not exceed the equ iv a l ent of US$1 m i l l ion (this c e i l ing was raised to US$3 m i l l ion on March 13, 2003, and to US$5 m i l l ion on March 27, 2003). E f fec t ive May 6, 2003, the pr ior approval re- qu irement for servicing of nonfmanc ial and f inanc ial private sector debts was abolished, except for serv ic ing of debts by f in an c i al en t i t ies under l i ab i l i t i es re f inanc ing schemes ap- proved by the BCRA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 ARGENTINA Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Under the regulations of the National Securities Commission (CNV), foreign and Argentine issuers must meet the same requirements to make a public offering of securities in Argen- tina. Both must establish a permanent representative office and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. Foreign issuers must state whether the securities are also being offered to the pub l ic in their country of origin and specify the initial and periodic information re- quirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the coun- try of origin properly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the requirements for these issuers. The CNV may authorize foreign issuers on a case-by-case basis to submit only such information as they would periodically submit to the corresponding authority in their jurisdiction of origin. Purchase abroad by residents Issuers of public offerings of securities domestically and abroad must present simultane- ously all required information in Spanish to the entities that authorize the public offering and listing abroad. Although there are no specific controls on residents' purchases of foreign securities abroad, their purchases may be limited as a result of restrictions on capital flows from Argentina to foreign jurisdictions. Effective March 27, 2003, the monthly limit on foreign exchange purchases for financial investment abroad without prior BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$300,000 from US$200,000 (prior to March 13, 2002, the limit was US$150,000). Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of shares of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing domestic issuers also apply. In particular, approval by the CNV is required for public offering. In addition, commercial paper must have a minimum matur- ity of seven days. Effective June 3, 2002, financial bonds issued and loans extended abroad must be made on terms not exceeding 90 consecutive days, in cases in which interest capi- talizations are not involved. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities The regulations governing domestic issuers also apply. In particular, approval by the CNV is required for public offering. In addition, commercial paper must have a minimum matur- ity of seven days. The regulations governing domestic issuers also apply. In particular, approval by the CNV is required for pub l ic offering. In addition, commercial paper must have a minimum matur- ity of seven days. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the sale or issue of shares of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. Purchase abroad by residents Forward and other derivatives contracts —except for currency and commodity swaps—are subject to BCRA approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Forward and other derivatives contracts —except for currency and commodity swaps—are subject to BCRA approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) ARGENTINA 55 E f fec t ive February 11, 2002, residents may extend credits to nonresidents only against pesos. Effec t ive September 6, 2002, a monthly ceiling of $100,000 applies on extension to financial credits. This limit was raised to US$150,000 on January 2, 2003; to US$200,000 on March 13, 2003; to US$300,000 on March 27, 2003; and to US$500,000 on May 6, 2003. Yes. Yes. No. Purchases of real estate in border areas by foreign investors require prior approval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense for national security reasons. Un t il August 12, 2002, most transfers related to the repayment of principal on loans con- tracted before February 11, 2002 —with certain exceptions —were subject to prior BCRA approval. Credits granted by f inanc ial intermediaries must be used in the country and must finance investment, production, commercialization, and consumption of goods and services for internal consumption or export. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are limits on the maximum amount of securities a bank may hold from a particular issuer. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Effec t ive September 9, 2002, foreign exchange bureaus are required to keep positions in external assets exceeding the equivalent of US$1.5 million in a dollar account at the BCRA (Communication A 3713). Transactions are prohibited by virtue of policies on general lending. There are regulations on the minimum capital held against market risks. Effective June 26, 2002, the l im i ts on the overall foreign exchange position to be held against market risks were adjusted as follows: (1) in the case of banks obtaining rediscount from the BCRA in amounts exceeding 50% of net liabilities, the limit was reduced by 50%; (2) in the case of banks that have made a capital in jec t ion in foreign currencies after December 3, 2002, the limit was increased by 40%; (3) in cases involving checks bought from third parties in cor- respondence accounts or banks that operate in more than 15 agencies, the limit was in- creased by the equ iva lent of US$500,000; and (4) in cases involving currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the euro, the limit was increased by US$1 million (Communication A 3645). Effec t ive February 13, 2003, the limit on the overall foreign exchange position (def ined as foreign currency l iqu id assets held abroad plus long spot and forward positions in foreign currency securities of foreign issuers and domestic holdings of foreign currency banknotes and coins) is the equivalent of 10% of regulatory capital outstanding at end- November 2001 or US$1 m i l l ion, whichever is larger. The same requirement applies to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 ARGENTINA f inanc ial entities. Effec t ive May 1, 2003, the absolute value of the overall net position in foreign exchange —as a mon th ly average of da i ly balances converted to pesos at the refer- ence exchange rate —may not exceed 30% of the net l iab i l i t ies of the preceding month (Communication A 3889). When the net foreign exchange position is positive, the amount may not exceed that propor- tion of l iqu id own resources, whichever is smaller. Excesses may be subject to a charge of up to the equ iva lent of twice the nominal annual interest rate resu l t ing from auctions of BCRA ins trumen ts in U.S. dollars or twice the 30-day LIBOR for operations in that cur- rency as reported for the last work ing day of the relevant month, whichever is greater. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on secur i t ies issued by nonres iden ts Yes. L im i ts (max.) on investment po r t fo l io he ld abroad There is a 25% l im it on investment for mu tual fund portfolios, but th is l im it does not apply to MERCOSUR and Chile. For diversification, no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign sovereign, or in securities of foreign corporations issued abroad. L im i ts (min .) on investment por tfo l io held loca l ly When a mu tual fund consists of securities, a m in imum of 75% of the investment must be made in assets issued and traded in Argentina, inc lud ing those issued by MERCOSUR and Ch i le. Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Due to the implicit risk associated with open foreign exchange positions in d ifferent cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar, additional capital is required to cover those risks. Depos- its and loans in these currencies are computed to bu i ld the position. Exchange arrangement January 5. The 7.5% export subsidy applicable to most exports was abolished. Changes During 2002 January 5. A dual exchange rate system was introduced. It consisted of an o f f ic ial ex- change rate of Arg$l .4 per US$1, applicable to certain trade and f inanc ial transactions, and the f loa t ing market exchange rate, applicable to all other transactions. February 11. The o f f ic ial exchange rate was e l im ina ted and the dual market was un i f ied. February 11. The authorities o f f i c i a l ly allowed the peso to float. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement of Argen t ina was reclassified from the category currency board arrange- ment to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate. March 18. Forward exchange operations with foreign counterparts required prior authoriza- t ion from the BCRA. April 29. The pr ior authorization requ iremen ts for transfers abroad to make payments for forward operations between foreign currencies were l i f ted. June 3. The restriction that forward exchange operations w i th foreign counterparts require prior authorization from the BCRA was extended to inc lude forward operations with local counterparts. June 5. Transfers of funds to settle forward contracts in commodity prices were permitted f ree ly. September 18. NDFs to be settled in domestic currency were allowed to be traded among f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. December 26. The BCRA suspended the buy ing and se l l ing of U.S. dollar banknotes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 57 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 6. A mon th ly c e i l ing of the equ iva lent of US$100,000 was imposed on foreign exchange purchases by res iden ts for var ious purposes. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts December 12. The "corralito" account arrangement was abo l ished. December 12. Foreign exchange-selling operations in the free market were allowed to be effected against peso banknotes, the buye r 's own check, or debits from the buye r 's account. February 3. Au thor ized banks were allowed to open demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies and time deposits in dollars and euros on behalf of select en t i t ies, provided that iden t i f ica t ion requ i remen ts ( in tended, inter alia, to prevent money launde r ing) have been met. February 3. Au thor ized banks were allowed to open demand deposit accounts in foreign currenc ies and t ime deposits in do l lars and euros on beha lf of select en t i t ies, provided that iden t i f ica t ion requ iremen ts ( in tended, in ter a l ia, to prevent money launder ing) have been met. Imports and import payments January 10. M i n im um f inanc ing requ iremen ts were imposed on import payments that are allowed to be made at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. February 11. M i n im um f in an c ing requ iremen ts were extended to the u n i f i ed market. March 25. Most imports were permitted to be paid for in advance when the importer had funds available in a foreign currency (cash or deposits abroad). May 3. A new schedu le of goods for wh ich advance payments are permitted came in to effect. September 5. M i n im um f in an c i al requ i remen ts made at the o f f ic ial exchange rate were eliminated. November 21. Advance payments were allowed in the fo l low ing cases: (1) for capital goods amoun t ing up to the equ iva lent of US$20,000 (f.o.b. va lue) or an equ iva lent amoun t; (2) from US$20,000 to US$100,000, w i th up to 30% advance payment, and ou ts tand ing ba lance f rom 90 days; (3) f rom US$100,000 to US$200,000, up to 30% advance payment and ou ts tand ing balance from 180 days; and (4) for h igher amounts, w i th a 20% advance payment, 15% paid upon b i l ls of lad ing, and the ou ts tand ing balance from 360 days. December 26. Advance payments for capital goods were permitted. Exports and export proceeds March 4. Export du ty rates were raised to 5-20% from 5-12% and were applied to all exports. May 17. Exporters are required to surrender export proceeds to the BCRA at the market rate. May 31. The vo lun ta ry scheme for BCRA fore ign exchange purchases f rom exporters was replaced w i th a requ i rement that me rchand ise export receipts above the equ iva lent of US$1 m i l l ion be surrendered to the BCRA —rather than to the market —at market rates. June 18. The amount of export proceeds that must be surrendered to the BCRA was re- duced to the equ iva lent of US$500,000 from US$1 m i l l i o n. September 3. The m i n im um amount of export proceeds that must be surrendered to the BCRA was reduced to the equ iv a l ent of US$200,000 from US$500,000. December 2. The pesos rece ived by the exporter in exchange for the export-related fore ign currency had to be deposited in sight deposits subject to "corralito" res tr ic t ions. December 26. Proceeds from exports of capital goods were allowed to be repatriated w i th in up to two years if they are covered by a guaran tee f rom banks abroad in the form of le t ters of cred it or letters of guarantee. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 11. P r ior approval of the BCRA was requ ired for rem i t tances of prof i ts and d iv idends. March 25. In terest payments on f i n a n c i al credits by the p r iva te sector, w i th cer ta in excep- t ion s, requ ired BCRA approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 ARGENTINA September 5. Prior approval of the BCRA was required for payments of interest on bonds and financial obligations on local government debt. December 31. BCRA approval was no longer required for interest payments on financial credits by the private sector. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 11. Proceeds from exports of services were required to be repatriated and surren- dered w i th in 15 days of collection —locally or abroad —or credited to a foreign account. Capital transactions Controls on capital transactions March 25. Proceeds from exports of services were required to be repatriated and surren- dered within 5 days of collection —locally or abroad—or credited to a foreign account. December 2. The pesos received by an exporter in exchange for the export-related foreign currency were required to be deposited in sight deposits subject to "corralito" restrictions. September 3. Automatic access to foreign exchange was permitted for enterprises whose debt had been restructured and ratified by the courts. Controls on capital and money market instruments March 13. The monthly limit on foreign exchange for purchase abroad of capital market securities without prior BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$200,000 from US$150,000. June 3. Financial bonds issued and loans extended abroad must be made on terms not ex- ceeding 90 days, consecutively, in cases where interest capitalizations are not involved. Controls on credit operations February 11. Residents may extend credits to nonresidents only against the peso. September 6. A monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$100,000 applied on extensions to financial credits. Controls on personal capital transactions February 11. Transfers related to repayment of principal on loans contracted before Febru- ary 11, 2002, were subject to prior BCRA approval, with certain exceptions. August 12. BCRA approval was no longer required for transfers related to repayment of principal on loans. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 26. The limits on overall foreign exchange position to be held against market risks were adjusted subject to certain circumstances. Exchange arrangement September 9. Foreign exchange bureaus were required to keep positions in external assets exceeding the equivalent of US$1.5 million in a dollar account at the central bank (Com- mun ica t ion A 3713). Changes During 2003 March 13. Domestic financial institutions were permitted to settle their overdue fu ture con- tracts with unrelated foreign f inanc ial institutions. March 22. Settlement of forward transactions and other financial derivatives contracts abroad require prior authorization of the BCRA. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 2. A monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$100,000 on residents' foreign ex- change purchases for various purposes was raised to US$150,000. March 13. A monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$100,000 on residents' foreign ex- change purchases for various purposes was raised to US$200,000. March 27. A monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$100,000 on residents' foreign ex- change purchases for various purposes was raised to US$300,000. March 27. Payments of external arrears of up to US$5 million were allowed under certain conditions. May 6. A monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$100,000 on residents' foreign exchange purchases for various purposes was raised to US$500,000. Imports and import payments January 7. Advance payments for all goods were permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers ARGENTINA 59 January 16. The m in imum amount of proceeds that must be surrendered to the BCRA was raised to the equivalent of US$1 million from US$200,000. Advances and prefinancing proceeds were no longer required to be surrendered to the BCRA. March 25. The period dur ing which repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign exchange market or surrendered to the BCRA was reduced to five days. March 27. The period dur ing which repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign exchange market or surrendered to the BCRA was changed to 30 days from 5 days. May 6. The period du r ing which repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign exchange market or surrendered to the BCRA was changed to 90 days from 30 days. May 6. Surrender of export proceeds to the BCRA was eliminated except for those exports for wh ich proceeds had to be received through February 1, 2002. January 2. The requirement for the transfers of dividend payments was lifted. _ _ _ . __ __ . . . • j r -^ r ^ j January 7. Prior BCRA approval was no longer required for remittances of profits and dividends. January 8. Payments of reinsurance premiums were subject to prior authorization from the National Superintendency of Insurance. May 5. Prior BCRA approval was no longer required for payments of interest on bonds and financial obligations on local government debt. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers March 27. The period dur ing wh ich proceeds from exports of services must be repatriated was extended to 30 days from 5 days. May 6. The period du r ing which proceeds from exports of services must be repatriated was extended to 90 days from 30 days. Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market ins t rumen ts Controls on credit operations January 2. Repayment of pr inc ipal services on non fmanc ial private sector debts no longer required BCRA prior approval, provided that the amount paid by the original financial debtor did not exceed a monthly equivalent of US$150,000. (This ceiling was raised to US$300,000 on February 13, 2003, and to US$1 m i l l ion on March 13, 2003.) February 13. Repayment of principal on nonfmancial private sector debts no longer re- qu ired BCRA prior approval, provided that the amounts involved financial debts that, as of December 31, 2001, did not exceed the equivalent of US$1 m i l l ion. (The ceiling was raised to US$3 m i l l ion on March 13, 2003 and to US$5 m i l l ion on March 27, 2003.) March 27. The mon th ly l im it on foreign exchange purchases for financial investment abroad w i thout pr ior BCRA approval was raised to the equ iva lent of US$300,000 from US$200,000. May 6. BCRA pr ior approval was no longer required for payments of principal on nonf i- nanc ial and f inanc ial private sector debts, except for those l iab i l i t ies under ref inanc ing schemes arranged with the BCRA. January 2. The mon th ly ce i l ing on purchases of foreign exchange by resident to nonresi- dents for extension of financial credits without BCRA approval was increased to the equ iva lent of US$150,000 from US$100,000. March 13. The monthly ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by resident to nonresi- dent for ex tens ion of f inanc ial credits w i thout BCRA approval was increased to the equiva- lent of US$200,000 from US$150,000. March 27. The mon th ly c e i l ing on purchases of foreign exchange by resident to nonresi- dents for ex tens ion of f inanc ial credits w i thout BCRA approval was increased to the equ iva lent of US$300,000 from US$200,000. May 6. The mon th ly ce i l ing on purchases of foreign exchange by resident to nonresidents for extension of f in an c i al credits w i thout BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$500,000 from US$300,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 ARGENTINA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions February 13. The l im it on the overall foreign exchange position of f inanc ial institutions was set at 10% of regulation capital outstanding at end-November 2001 or US$1 m i l l ion, whichever is larger. May I. The overall net position in foreign exchange of f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions (as a monthly average of daily balances converted to pesos at the reference exchange rate) was not al- lowed to exceed 30% of the net l iab i l i t ies of the preceding month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Armenia is the Armenian dram. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Armenia has adopted an independently floating exchange rate regime. The Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) pursues a policy of monetary targeting for which it manages the reserve money as its operational target and intervenes in the foreign exchange market only to smooth the fluctuations of reserve money. Foreign exchange transactions take place pre- dominantly in the interbank market, in which the CBA also participates. Foreign exchange auctions in Armenia are currently inoperative. Purchases and sales of foreign currency may be implemented through foreign exchange entities licensed by the CBA, including banks; foreign exchange dealers; and foreign ex- change bureaus; or, in the case of the government and commercial banks, through the CBA itself which acts as the government's financial agent. Foreign exchange entities carry out foreign exchange transactions by setting their own buy ing and selling rates without any restrictions. The exchange rate of the dram against the dollar is determined on the basis of exchange rates prevailing in the interbank market on the previous day. The official exchange rate is set as the average (midpoint) of the CBA's buying and selling rates. The official exchange rate is used for accounting purposes and is used in daily operations with the treasury. For- eign exchange entities use the official exchange rate of the CBA for bookkeeping and re- valuation purposes. Foreign exchange en t i t ies and other business en t i t ies determine exchange rates for their operations independently. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may negotiate freely forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. However, for the time being, the forward exchange market in Armenia is still undeveloped, although some banks sign forward contracts in small amounts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents are proh ib i ted f rom us ing fo re ign exchange as a means of payment w i th in Arme- nia. Inoperative A rmen ia ma in ta ins agreements w i th Russ ia and Turkmenistan. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 ARMENIA Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Administration of control Armenia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Union (with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Repub l ic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), which provides for the eventual establishment of a customs union, a payments union, cooperation on investment, indus tr ial development, and customs procedures. Armenia also joined the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payments Union of CIS member countries. Armenia is a member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) Pact, together with Albania, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. B i la teral free trade agreements have been signed with Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Ukraine, though only the agreement with Russia is in operation. In 2002, Armenia joined the EU as an observer. Effec t ive December 10, 2002, Armenia is a member of the WTO. There is an arrangement with Turkmenistan for the importation of natural gas. In addition, bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inoperative. The CBA is the main body that formulates and administers exchange rate policy and that may issue foreign exchange regulations w i th in Armenia. The CBA also has the overall responsibility for currency control, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE). In general, the MOFE exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CBA exercises au thor i ty over the activities of all other agents. Resident and nonresi- dent currency dealers, inc lud ing banks, may undertake foreign exchange transactions with- out restriction. There are no restrictions on current and capital movements unless otherwise specified by the CBA (in which case one mon th's notice is required). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears O f f ic ial There are arrears to the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan, but negotiations for their settlements through transfer of goods (in the case of Turkmenistan) and debt-equity swaps (in the case of Russia) have been conc luded. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Ind iv idua ls are authorized to transfer, de l iver, and export currency and securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 without any restriction. Exports of currency exceeding that amount are permitted through bank transfers. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 63 Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tarifft Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits from the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Health are required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pesticides. Imports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require special authorization from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero and 10%; the former applies to most imports. Products imported from countries in the CIS are exempted. Tariffs for a few agricultural products, textiles, and vehicles are zero, while a 10% tariff applies for a variety of new materials and manufactured products. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements At present, there is no repatriation requirement; however, the CBA has the power, as speci- fied by legislation, to impose such requirements on foreign exchange proceeds. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export permits are required for export of medicines, wild animals, and plants. In addition, special government permission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuclear products, and technology with direct military applications. Mini- mum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign-produced goods therefrom remain in force. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 ARMENIA Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Except for purchases of real estate in Armenia by nonresidents, there are no controls on capital transactions. However, the CBA reserves the r ight to impose controls if necessary. New con tro ls are announced one month in advance. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Non res iden ts are prohibited by the cons t i tu t ion to acqu ire land in Armenia. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit institutions On November 22, 2002, the CBA introduced a deposit insurance scheme for deposits in foreign and local currencies. In July 2005, a special guaranteed deposit insurance fund will begin to pay compensation on deposits in the event of a bankruptcy D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits An 8% reserve requ i rement in local currency applies against deposits in both foreign and domestic currency. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, the reserve requ irement is remunerated at an annual rate of 3% (prior to th is date, 5%). Effective January 3, 2003, a limit of 30% applies to the gross foreign exchange position of lend ing ins t i tu t ions in convertible and nonconve r t ib le currencies (prior to this date, the l im it was 25%). Moreover, a l im it of 5% applies to the net foreign exchange position of commercial banks in nonconver t ib le currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 December JO. A rmen ia became a member of the WTO. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions P rov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and o ther credit in s t i tu t ions January 1. The annual rate of remune ra t ion for reserve requ i rement was reduced to 3% f rom 5%. November 22. The CBA in troduced a deposit insurance scheme for deposits in foreign and local currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 65 Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 3. The limit applied to the gross foreign exchange position of lending institutions in convertible and nonconvertible currencies was increased to 30% from 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of A ruba is the Aruban f lo r in. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The f lo r in is pegged to the do l lar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals w i th local commercial banks w i th in margins of 0.002795% on either side of parity. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, except when settled in Ne the r lands An t i l lean guilders. Certain institutions are exempted from this commission. Since J u ly 17, 2002, payments abroad through checking accounts of local banks, and payments to nonresidents effected through intercompany and foreign bank ac- coun ts are also exempt from th is commission. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements n.a. No. Administration of control The CBA adm in is ters fore ign exchange con tro l. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The expor ta t ion of domestic bankno tes is proh ib i ted. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld domes t ica l ly Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 67 Held abroad The opening of an account abroad must be reported to the CBA. Approval is not required, but holders of accounts abroad must apply to the CBA if they wish to be exempted from the requirement that they collect foreign claims as soon as they fall due and transfer and sell them to a local foreign exchange bank. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are fu l ly convertible. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of eggs may be subject to quotas, depending on the domestic supply situation. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, or credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank, or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been registered with the CBA. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most restrictions on these transactions have been eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 ARUBA Inves tmen t-re la ted payments Indicative limits/bona fide test In terest payments on all types of loans may be effected if a l icense has been obtained from the CBA to conclude the loan. As regards profits and dividends, documents should be sub- mitted to the CBA w i th respect to the amount invo lved. In the case of depreciation of direct investments, a special license is required if the amount of the transaction exceeds the au- thor ized c e i l ing. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless spec if ica l ly exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in eight wo rk ing days, or credited to a fore ign currency account w i th a local foreign exchange bank, or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been reported to the CBA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital Transactions E f fec t ive J u ly 1, 2002, transac t ions of less than Af. 300,000 a year (prev ious ly, Af. 200,000) for na tural persons and Af. 750,000 a year (prev ious ly, Af. 500,000) for ju- r id ical persons (exc lud ing commercial banks and in s t i tu t ional investors) may be carried out w i thout CBA au tho r iza t ion. These ce i l ings are app l icab le to all capital transactions w i th nonresidents, inc lud ing investments and loans; a CBA license is required for capital trans- ac t ions exceeding these ce i l ings. There are controls on all these transactions. A CBA license is requ ired for transactions that exceed the ind ica ted ce i l ings. There are con t ro ls on these transac t ions exceed ing the indicated ce i l ings. Controls on credit operations There are con t ro ls on these t ransac t ions exceed ing the ind ica ted ce i l ing s. Controls on direct investment There are con t ro ls on all transac t ions exceeding the indicated ce i l ings. Outward d i rect i n v e s tm e nt The CBA may r e q u i re d ives tmen t, repa tr ia t ion, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Inward d irect inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are con t ro ls on transac t ions exceeding the ind ica ted ce i l ings. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Se t t lement of deb ts abroad by imm ig r an ts Personal cap i tal t ransac t ions must be effected th rough the b ank ing system. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 69 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits are 40% of the first Af. 10 m i l l ion of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the second Af. 10 m i l l ion; and 60% of the rema in ing l iab i l i t ies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement Capital transactions July 17. Payments abroad made through checking accounts of local banks, and payments to nonresidents that are effected through intercompany and foreign bank accounts are exempt f rom the 1.3% fore ign exchange commission. July 1. The l im it for capital transactions that do not require a special foreign exchange li- cense f rom the CBA was increased to Af. 300,000 from Af. 200,000 for natural persons and to Af. 750,000 from Af. 500,000 for ju r id i c al persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of July 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1965. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other coun- tries, inc lud ing K ir iba t i, Nauru, and Tuvalu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market determined. Licensed foreign ex- change dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas coun- terparties at mu tua l ly negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any cur- rency with regard to trade- and non-trade related transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA publishes an indica- tive rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 9 a.m., noon, and 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and futures contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Residents generally require a financial services license to purchase or sell foreign currency except where one of the fo l low ing conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immedi- ately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Australia participates in PACER. Effec t ive March 1 1, 2002, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) is responsible for the licensing of all f inanc ial service providers, inc lud ing foreign exchange dealers that deal in foreign currency transactions unless the transactions are settled immedi- ately or in the case of persons dealing on their own accounts. Financial restrictions apply to certain transactions, accounts, and assets relating to Iraq; Zimbabwe; the UNITA movement in Angola; certain persons associated with the previous government of the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia; the Taliban; and organizations, indi- v idua ls, and other entities identified as terrorists or as sponsors of terrorism. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1373, the Minister for Foreign A f fa i rs is empowered to maintain a list of suspected persons, entities, and assets connected with terrorism (the list was augmented on October 28, 2002). Dealing with the funds or other assets of the listed individuals or groups, or making funds or assets available to them, is proh ib i ted, and any funds in connection with listed ind iv idua ls or groups must be frozen. Payments arrears No. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 71 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exportation or importation of notes and coins totaling more than $A 10,000 in domestic or foreign currency must be reported to the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Cen- ter (AUSTRAC). Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency they brought into Australia. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically A person generally requires a financial services license to purchase or sell foreign currency except where one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immedi- ately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Conversion may be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted A person generally requires a financial services license to purchase or sell foreign currency except where one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immedi- ately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on his or her own account. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Conversion must be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a per- son who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the trans- action is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Only those accounts affected by international security restrictions or UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota that applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are observed. Among the goods subject to con- trol are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weapons; certain chemicals and primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; rough diamonds; and va r ious dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 AUSTRALIA Import taxes and/or tariffs safety requ i remen t s; to meet certain requ i remen ts for labe l ing, packaging, or techn ical spec i f ica t ions; and to sa t is fy certain ob l iga t ions a r i s ing f rom Au s t r a l i a 's membersh ip in in te rna t ional commodity agreements or to meet ob l iga t ions under in te rna t ional trade embargoes. A general t a r i ff of 5% app l ies to most manu fac tu red goods, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions. The ta r i ff on passenger motor vehicles and certain automotive componen ts is 15% and is schedu led to be reduced to 5% by 2010. Textiles, c lo th ing, and footwear are subject to ta r i f fs rang ing f rom zero to 25%. Tar iffs for these goods w i ll also be reduced on January 1, 2005 to leve ls between 7.5% and 17.5%. Tar iffs for a large range of goods have been abolished. The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods between Australia and New Zealand. The SPARTECA prov ides the Forum Is land coun tr ies w i th nonrec iproca l, du ty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Aus- t ra l ia is covered by the Papua New Gu inea-Aus tra l ia Trade and Commercial Re la t ions Ag reemen t. Deve lop ing coun tr ies receive ta r i ff preferences on exports to Aus t ra l ia under the Au s t ra l ian System of Tar iff Preferences for Deve lop ing Coun tr ies, w i th a u n i f o rm pref- eren t ial marg in of 5%. E f fec t ive J u ly 1, 2003, all goods produced in the least-developed coun t r i es and Timor-Leste may be imported free of du t ies and quotas. Preferences have been e l im in a t ed on impor ts of some goods, such as tex t i les, c l o t h i ng and footwear, chemi- cals, vege tab le and f r u it prepara t ions, tuna, and sugar, except f rom the least-developed coun t r ies and South P a c i f ic is land terr i tor ies. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentat ion requirements Export licenses W i th quo tas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export p roh ib i t ions and res t r ic t ions in effect are designed to ensure q u a l i ty con t ro l, adm in- ister trade embargoes, and meet ob l iga t ions under international arrangements. These prohi- b i t ions are also set up to res tr ict the expo r ta t ion of cer ta in defense ma ter ia ls; regu la te the exportation of goods that invo lve h igh technology and have dual c iv i l ian and m i l i tary ap- p l i c a t i o n s; m a i n t a in adequate measures of control over designated cu l tu r al property, re- sources, f lora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and respond to specific market d i s to r t ions abroad. R em a i n i ng con t ro ls on p r ima ry p roduc ts apply m a in ly to food and agri- cu l tu r al products. Rough d iamonds may be exported on ly to coun tr ies par t ic ipa t ing in the K im b e r ly Process C e r t i f i c a t ion Scheme. Export con t ro ls app ly to u r a n i um and related nuc lear materials ( i n c l u d i ng u ran ium -bea r ing sands) to ensure compliance w i th Aus t ra l ia 's nonp ro l i fe ra t ion policy obligations. Restric- t ions also app ly to cer ta in other nuc lear and related materials. Licenses are requ i red for exports of unprocessed wood, in c lud ing wood chips. The Australian Dairy Corporation adm in i s te rs export con t rol powers in re la t ion to prescribed da i ry p roduc ts under the provi- sions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system a l lows the con t rol of expor ts to markets where qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions apply. Cattle, sheep or goat meat, and l ives tock may be exported on ly by persons or firms licensed by the Commonwealth Department of Ag r icu l tu re, Fisheries, and Forestry (AFFA). If other coun t r i es impose q u a n t i t a t i ve res t r ic t ions on imports of meat or livestock, the AFFA may, in con junc t ion w i th indus t ry, introduce measures to control Aus tra l ian exports to conform w i th those re s t r ic t ion s. Other Commonwea l th s ta tu to ry ma rke t ing au tho r i t ies that have export control powers are the Ho r t icu l tu re Aus tra l ia L im i ted, the Australian Honey Board, the Aus tra l ian Wheat Board, and the Au s t r a l i an W ine and B randy Corporation. The Au s t ra l ian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Aus tra l ian wheat. A u s t r a l ia has a comp le te ban on the export of m e r ino ewes, t h e ir gene t ic ma ter ia l, ova, and embryos to any c o u n t ry o ther than New Zea land. However, me r ino b reed ing rams ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 73 purchased at designated export auctions and semen from rams included in the National Register of Semen Export Donors may be exported. Sales are subject to AFFA approval and an annual quota (currently limited in total to 800 rams a year, with a provision for up to 100 rams to be placed on a semen donor register). No ram sold and nominated for the col- lection of semen for export may be physically exported. There is no restriction on the ex- port of merino rams or reproductive material to New Zealand. The above restrictions do not apply to mer ino rams intended for slaughter; however, the export of these rams is subject to controls to ensu re they do not enter breed ing stocks. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, which may be affected by laws and policies on inward direct investment, may requ ire notification to the Australian authorities. Foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authorities of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Sub- ject to certain disclosure requirements, overseas banks may issue securities in the wholesale capital market in amounts of $A 500,000 or more. Effective March 11, 2002, a license is- sued by the ASIC is requ ired to provide f inanc ial products advice; to deal in f inanc ial prod- ucts ( inc lud ing securities, derivatives, and foreign exchange contracts that are not deriva- tives or a contract to exchange one currency for another that is to be settled immediately); or to create a market for a f inanc ial product. This license entails specific codes of conduct and obligations, and subjects the licensee to certain disclosure requirements in relation to retail clients. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments A person gene ra l ly requ ires a f inanc ial services l icense to purchase or sell foreign currency except where one of the fo l low ing cond i t ions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immedi- ately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own accoun t. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 AUSTRALIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Prior authorization is required for (1) acquisitions by foreign investors of a substantial in- terest in an Australian business with total assets of $A 50 million or more or where the proposal values the business at or over that amount (a substantial interest occurs when a single foreigner and any associates have 15% or more ownership of a business or several foreigners have 40%); (2) all investments subject to special restrictions (i.e., in the banking, civil aviation, airports, shipping, media, telecommunications, and real estate sectors), in- cluding those below the $A 50 million threshold; (3) direct investments by foreign govern- ments or their agencies, irrespective of size; and (4) proposals to establish new business where the total amount of the investment is $A 10 million or more. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents All acquisitions of residential real estate, inc lud ing vacant land, must be documented, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate for de- velopment are normally approved, as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commer- cial real estate. Acquisition of developed nonresidential commercial real estate is exempt if the total value of the property is less than $A 50 m i l l ion and if the property is not subject to heritage listing. If the property is subject to heritage listing, the total value of the property may not exceed $A 5 m i l l ion. Approval is also usua l ly granted for acquisitions of vacant land for development, subject to certain conditions, and for acquisitions of dwellings (including condominiums) direct from a developer, either "off the plan," while under construction, or completed but never occu- pied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwellings are sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are normally approved only in cases involving temporary residents who acquire the property as their principal place of residence for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon depar- ture. Foreign persons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia or those who pur- chase as joint tenants with an Australian spouse are not required to seek approval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate (including condominiums) within a designated integrated tourist resort is exempt from authorization. The sale of Australian real estate by both residents and nonresidents is subject to the above conditions. Transfers may be subject to approval of the authorities in cases where the g ift involves a foreign person attaining an interest in Australian urban land. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Authorized deposit-taking institutions are subject to prudential requirements, e.g., liquidity management and credit concentration. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Prior approval from the Treasurer is required for any person or group —domestic or foreign —to acquire a 15% or larger share in a financial sector company, inc lud ing authorized deposit-taking institutions and any nonoperating holding company for these ins t i tu t ions in Australia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 75 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Foreign-owned l i fe insurance companies can only operate in the form of locally incorpo- rated subsidiaries. Other controls imposed by securities laws The rules of the Australian Stock Exchange requ ire that, to be a participating organization of the exchange, a majority of the directors must be Australian residents. This rule does not prohibit foreigners from owning participating organizations. Authorized deposit-taking institutions, insurance companies, and pension funds are super- vised by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Changes During 2002 March 11. The Financial Services Reform Act came into effect, establishing a single licens- ing regime within the ASIC for all financial market activity. Providers of financial services must now hold an Australian financial services license issued by the ASIC. October 28. Additional names of individuals and entities associated with terrorism that are subject to financial restrictions were added to the list maintained by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. March 11. A license issued by the ASIC is required to provide financial products advice, to deal in financial products, or to create a market for a financial product. Imports and import payments July 1. All goods produced in least-developed countries and Timor-Leste were allowed to be imported free of duties and quotas. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le V I II Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Aus tr ia is the euro. U n t il February 28, 2002, the Au s t r ian sch i l l ing was the legal tender in cash transac t ions, and between Janua ry 1 and February 28, 2002, both the s c h i l l i ng and the euro c i r cu l a t ed. The euro became the sole legal tender on March 1, 2002. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Au s t r ia pa r t ic ipa tes in a currency un ion (EMU) w i th 11 o ther members of the EU: Be lg ium, F in l and, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Ne ther lands, Portugal, and Spain. The convers ion rate between the euro and the s ch i l l ing was set at S 13.7603 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i l a t e r al paymen ts a r rangemen ts Operative Adm in i s tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free euro accoun ts. There are no b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreements; however, several b i la te ral agreements ex ist for the p romo t ion and p ro tec t ion of inves tmen ts, wh ich in c lude p rov is ions on transfers be- tween the signatories. Most exchange t ran sac t ions are effec ted th rough Au s t r ian banks au tho r ized by the central bank. Certain res t r ic t ions on payments and transfers for cu r rent in te rna t ional transactions to Iraq are in force. EU re s t r ic t ions are imposed on payments and transfers to spec i f ica l ly targeted persons associated w i th Liberia or the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. In addition, restric- t ions app ly to payments and transfers to Myanma r; Somalia; Z imbabwe; the Taliban; and i n d i v i d u a l s, groups, and o rgan iza t ions associated w i th terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution He ld domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures AUSTRIA 77 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of citizens of certain countries affected by EU regulations and accounts that are blocked by v i r tue of UN sanctions are treated d i f f e r e n t l y. In the former case, r egu l a t ions are addressed d i r e c t ly to the cred it in s t i tu t ions of the member states, wh i ch are then respon- sible for tak ing the requ is i te action. This procedure app l ies to accounts be long ing to certain citizens of Myanmar, Zimbabwe, ind iv idu a ls linked to the former Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia, the Ta l iban, and to no n -EU terrorists. In the la t ter case, the Au s t r i an N a t i o n al Bank issues o f f ic ial announcemen ts ( regu la t ion s) to make p rov i s ions of the UN sanc t ions effec t ive under Aus t r ian law. These o f f i c i al announcemen ts are addressed to the Au s t r ian credit ins t i tu t ions. This procedure applies to accounts be long ing to c i t izens of Iraq and to terrorists w i th a res idence in the EU. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Expo rt and impo rt l i c en s es mu st be issued by the Federal M i n i s t ry for Econom ic A f f a i rs for indu s t r ial produc ts and by the Federal M i n i s t ry of A g r i c u l t u re and Forestry for a g r i c u l t u r al products. As a member of the EU, Au s t r ia app l ies all import r egu l a t ions based on the com- mon commercial policy, i.e., import restrictions for indu s t r ial products in the tex t i le and c lo th ing sectors and s ta t i s t ical su rv e i l l an ce for p roduc ts f a l l i ng und er the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also r egu l a t ions based on cu r rent EU law w i th regard to Ch ina for imports of some consumer products. Pos i t ive l i st Licenses w i th quo tas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Au s t r ia app l ies the Common Impo rt Reg ime of the EU. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes AUSTRIA Licenses for exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry, or at the time of clear- ance, f rom the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agree- ments and the f u l f i l lm e nt of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward d irect inves tment In some cases, reporting requirements to the Austrian National Bank exist. No. No. In the aud i t ing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Au s t r ian residents who are not na t iona ls of one of the coun t r ies of the EEA. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accoun ts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requ i remen ts apply on ly to deposits he ld in euros. Liquid asset requirements L iqu id asset requ i remen ts apply on ly to deposits he ld in euros. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The net amount of an open foreign exchange position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any bu s ine ss day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own fund s. The euro is not considered a foreign currency. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 79 On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad L im i ts (min.) on investment por tfo l io held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January I. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the schilling could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan manat. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The o f f ic ial exchange rate of the manat is determined as the weighted average of the rates quoted in telephone, auc t ion, customer, and e lec tron ic interbank transactions. Most ex- change transactions are effected as customer transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements B i la teral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements In accordance w i th current leg is la t ion, settlements among residents w i th in the country may be effected in foreign currencies on ly w i th a license issued by the Azerbaijan Na t ional Bank (ANB). Yes. Azerbaijan was a member of the Payment Un ion of the CIS countries, which is now inoperative. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency operations, and administers o f f ic ial gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall respons ib i l i ty for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open foreign exchange accounts abroad; for regu la t ing foreign exchange operations, inc lud ing imple- men t ing and mon i tor ing compliance w i th the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. The M in is try of Economic Development regulates foreign trade, wh i le the organization and operation of customs is regulated under the Cus- toms Code. No. No. Controls are administered by the Cabinet of M in is tr ies jo in t ly w i th the ANB. Controls on external trade A license is requ i red to conduct in te rna t ional trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The expor ta t ion and impor ta t ion of fore ign banknotes are regulated by the ANB and the customs agencies. Banks may import and export fore ign banknotes on ly w i th a license issued by the ANB. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 81 No more than manat 50,000 in banknotes may be taken out of the coun try, on the cond i t ion that they be returned. Residents and non res iden ts may export up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 and $1,000, respec- t ive ly, w i thout documen ta t ion. E f fec t ive Ap r il 10, 2002, both residents and nonres iden ts may export up to $50,000 in currency that they prev ious ly brought into the country. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Ind iv idu a ls may ma in ta in these accounts w i thout dec la r ing the source of the foreign ex- change, and they may transfer foreign exchange held in these accounts freely. Resident enterprises may open and use fore ign exchange bank accoun ts in banks abroad, subject to authorization by the ANB. Enterprises are obligated to repatriate the foreign exchange he ld in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). There is no regulation for ind iv idua ls who open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad, however, p r ior approval is requ i red. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Na tural and ju r id i c al persons may purchase foreign exchange th rough au thor ized banks, and authorized banks may also purchase fore ign exchange in these markets on the ir own account, in accordance w i th the regu la t ions of the ANB. These regu la t ions do not set any limit. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign exchange in these accoun ts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manat. P r ior to open ing an accoun t, a non res ident en t i ty must prov ide proof from the M i n- istry of Jus t ice of its legal status. Non r e s id ent enterprises may also open and operate accoun ts in manat and use them for domestic transactions, in accordance w i th ins t ruc t ions issued by the ANB. Convertible into foreign currency Non res iden ts may acqu i re fore ign currency th rough au thor ized banks w i t h o ut l im i t. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i remen ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import payments made more than 180 days p r ior to the de l ive ry of goods r equ i re ANB approval. E f fec t ive June 20, 2002, prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are limited to the equivalent of $25,000 (previously, $10,000). This amount may exceed the indicative l im i t, subject to authorization of the ANB. E f fec t ive June 20, 2002, prepaymen ts by bank t rans fe rs in excess of $25,000 (p rev iou s ly, $10,000) or its equ iv a l ent requ i re e i ther an LC or au tho r iza t ion by the ANB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 AZERBAIJAN Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most goods from all sources are subject to a tar iff of 15% and some capital and input goods are subject to a tariff of 5%. Tariff bands of 3% and 10% apply to other goods, and certain goods are subject to a 0.5% tar iff. Imports of underinvoiced goods are subject to specific tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports within 180 days and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan w i th in 10 days of receipt. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to the ir being transferred to a licensed bank. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes All export operations must be secured by a 100% prepayment or an irrevocable LC. Yes. Exports of scrap metal are restricted. A duty of $5 to $ 15 a metric ton is applied to exports of scrap metal. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Effec t ive June 20, 2002, the limits on all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers are eliminated, and resident ind iv idua ls are allowed to purchase noncash foreign exchange for transfer abroad to meet the costs of bona fide current international transactions. Investment-related payments Prior to June 20, 2002, these transactions were subject to indicative limits. Payments for travel Personal payments Prior to June 20, 2002, these transactions were subject to indicative limits. Prior to June 20, 2002, these transactions were subject to indicative limits of $10,000 on the cost of payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and family maintenance and alimony. Foreign workers' wages Prior to June 20, 2002, prior approval was requ ired for these transactions. Other payments Prior to June 20, 2002, the indicative limit for subscriptions and membership fees varied from $1,000 to $5,000, or the equivalents, a year. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds received by residents must be repatriated w i th in six months and transferred to a licensed bank w i th in 10 days of repatriation. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 83 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls, except that banks must sell their holdings shares to nonresidents within the quotas specified by the ANB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are regulated by the State Securities Committee in accordance with quo- tas and trading authorization procedures. Purchase abroad by residents The transfer of funds is permitted with the approval of the ANB. Sale or issue abroad by residents These operations are regulated by the laws on joint-stock companies, securities, and stock exchanges, and by in-house instruction of the ANB and the State Securities Committee. Sales are effected mainly by prior subscription; an organized market is just emerging. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locallyJby nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments are not currently available, and legislation concerning derivatives has not been formulated. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Effec t ive June 20, 2002, credits provided to nonresidents for longer than 180 days and credits to finance projects abroad require ANB approval. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires ANB authorization. Profits may be reinvested in local currency held in Azerbaijan or converted into foreign currency and transferred without controls. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30% are entitled to a two-year holiday on profit taxes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 AZERBAIJAN Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. G i f ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted, but a court r u l i ng is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Subject to presentation of satisfactory documents and based on a court ru l ing, Transfer abroad by emigrants Subject to authorization by the ANB. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) E f fec t ive June 20, 2002, credits provided to nonresidents for longer than 180 days and credits to f inance projects abroad requ ire ANB approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There is a 10% reserve requ irement on all deposit accounts, regardless of currency. Liquid asset requirements L iqu id assets must be equal to at least 30% of current ob l iga t ions with maturities in the current month. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements There is a 10% reserve requ irement on deposit accounts. Liquid asset requirements Investment regu la t ions L iqu id assets must be equal to at least 30% of current obligations with maturity in the cur- rent month. The Law on Banks and Bank ing grants the ANB the right to set quotas for participation in banks' equ i ty capital by foreign investors. This same law establishes regulations governing the investment of funds in shares of other banks, nonbank enterprises, institutions, and organizations. Abroad by banks These transactions are permitted with ANB approval. In banks by nonresidents These transactions are subject to authorization by the ANB. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The regu la t ions and procedures governing participation by nonresidents in the securities market are determined in accordance w i th the Azerbaijan Repub l ic Law on Securities and by the Committee on Secur i t ies under the president of Azerbaijan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 85 Other controls imposed by securities laws In accordance w i th the Azerbaijan Repub l ic Law on Securities, the c ircu la t ion of securities of fore ign issuers in Azerbaijan is regulated by the Committee on Securities. Securities of issuers registered in Azerbaijan may be placed outside Azerbaijan with the authorization of this committee. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April JO. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to export up to the equ iva lent of $50,000 in currency that they previously brought into the country. Imports and import payments Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on credit operations June 20. The amount of transfers banks are allowed to make for prepayment of imports of goods and services was increased to $25,000 from $10,000. Transfers exceeding the equ iva lent of $25,000 must be effected th rough an LC or w i th the au thor iza t ion of the ANB. June 20. The l im i ts on all payments for i n v i s i b le transac t ions and cu r rent transfers were eliminated and resident ind iv idua ls were allowed to purchase noncash foreign exchange for transfer abroad to meet the costs of bona f ide current in terna t ional transactions. Previously, investment-related payments, payments for travel, personal payments, and payments for subscr ip t ions and memberships were subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and approval was required for the transfer of foreign workers' wages. June 20. Credits provided to nonres iden ts for longer than 180 days and credits to f inance projects abroad requ ired ANB approval. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 20. Loans extended to nonresidents for longer than 180 days and credits to finance projects abroad requ ired ANB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution T HE B AH AM AS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Du al Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian do l lar. Commemorative go ld coins in denominations of B$ 10, B $ 2 0, B $ 5 0, B$ 100, B$ 150, B$200, B$250, B$ 1,000, and B$2 ,500 and s i lver coins denominated B $ 10 and B$25 are legal tender but do not circulate. The U . S. do l lar circulates concurrently w i th the Bahamian do l lar. In addition to the off ic ial exchange market, there is a market in w h i ch investment currency may be negotiated between residents through the Central B ank of The Bahamas ( C B B ); the current premium b id and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct investments outside The Bahamas. In certain circumstances, the C BB may also per­ mit residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such outward investments. The Bahamian do l lar is pegged to the U . S. do l lar, the intervention currency, at par. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the pound sterling are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted, w i th the buy ing rate based on the rate in the N ew Y o rk market; the se l l ing rate is 0 .5% above the buy ing rate. The C BB deals on ly w i th commercial banks. For transactions w i th the pub l i c, commercial banks are authorized to charge a comm iss ion of 0.50% buy ing and 0.75% se l l ing per U S $ 1, and 0.50% buy ing or se l l ing per £ 1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to a ll outward remittances. N o. Comme rc ial banks may provide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Comm e r c i al banks may not, how­ ever, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements w i th­ out the C B B 's permission. Au tho r ized dealers may deal forward in foreign currency w i th nonresidents without pr ior approval from the C B B. Comm e r c i al banks may execute for­ ward deals among themselves at market rates but they must ensure when carrying out a ll forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward pos i t ion does not exceed the equivalent of B$500 ,000 long or short. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no d is t inc t ion between foreign territo- ries. Settlements w i th residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Fo re ign currency is defined as a ll cur­ rencies other than the Bahamian dollar. The Bahamas is a member of the C A R I C O M, but it does not participate in the common market. Exchange control is administered by the C B B, wh i ch delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, inc lud ing payments for imports up to B$500 ,000 (prior to September 9, 2002, B$ 100,000). Effective 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 87 September 9, 2002, the approval authority for cash g if ts up to B$ 10,000 a year is delegated to authorized banks. No. No. Residents, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the ap- proval of the CBB, meet their current industrial requirements. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a li- cense and are duty free, although a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax payable to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. A traveler may export banknotes up to a total of B$200. Bahamian travelers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Importation is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Permission from the CBB is required to open and hold those accounts. Permission is nor- mally granted to persons earning substantial amounts of foreign exchange who make regu- lar payments abroad. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required. These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with payments in a foreign currency from residents of The Bahamas with the specific permission of the CBB, payments in foreign currency from non- residents, and foreign currency receipts arising from dealings between nonresidents and authorized dealers. These accounts may be interest bearing. Accounts may be debited for payments to residents or nonresidents, for payments to other foreign currency accounts, and for payment of foreign currency costs involved in dealings between nonresidents and au- thorized dealers. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts With the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denomi- nated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not ga in fu l ly employed in The Bahamas. Foreign nationals who have been granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS temporary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but in- come on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval of the CBB. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Nonresidents may maintain external Bahamian dollar accounts with authorized dealers with CBB permission. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs E f fec t ive September 9, 2002, prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for non-oil imports exceeding B$500,000 (previously, B$ 100,000), irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health reasons. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. All other goods may be imported without a license. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tariff rate on most goods is 42%, and the aver- age tariff rate is 35%. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no import duty on certain tourist-related goods, but these goods are subject to stamp duties ranging from 8% to 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached the ir destination or w i th in six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are not required, except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no restrictions on current payments. However, there are l im i ts on the approval authority delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may make pay- ments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life insurance premiums, within specified ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 89 limits. CBB approval is required for payments in excess of those limits or for categories of payments not delegated. A CBB-issued "Personal Allowance" card must be presented to authorized dealers to record foreign currency purchases. CBB approval is required for transactions over B$25,000 for unloading and storage costs and commissions. Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits For all investments w i th approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer. Yes. Authorized dealers may provide up to B$ 10,000 a person for tourism and other personal travel (prior to September 9, 2002, B$ 1,000 a person above the age of 18 years or B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years). The l im it on travel for educational purposes is B$ 10,000 a year (prior to September 9, 2002, B$3,000). For business or professional travel, the limit is B$50,000 (prior to September 9, 2002, B$ 10,000) a person a year. The allow- ance for tour ist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which is normally paid in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused bal- ance must be surrendered w i th in one week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one week of re tu rn ing to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Authorized dealers may provide up to B$25,000 for education payments to institutions (B$2,500 a transaction if paid to the student), fam i ly maintenance, and alimony payments. CBB approval is required for amounts exceeding this limit. (Prior to September 9, 2002, l im i ts rang ing from B$ 1,000 to B$3,000 a transaction for education-related costs applied.) There is no l im it for medical expenses. Yes. Yes. The limit is 50% of wages and salaries. If commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of the ir accumulated savings resu l t ing from the ir employment in The Bahamas. Approval is requ ired for residents to hold an in terna t ional credit card w i th a l im it exceeding B$25,000 (effec t ive September 9, 2002; prior to this date, B$ 10,000). Cards may not be used to pay for l i fe insurance premiums and capital items. Indicative limits/bona fide test Those transactions are subject to bona f ide tests. Other payments Prior approval Pr ior approval from the CBB is required for payments exceeding B$25,000 for professional services charges, subscriptions, membership fees, royalties, registration of patents, serial rights, and advertising. (Prior to September 9, 2002, limits rang ing from B$ 1,000 a transac- t ion for subscr ip t ion fees to B$3,000 a transaction for consultation and legal fees applied.) Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 THE BAHAMAS Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect all proceeds without delay. Surrender requirements All foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident- owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, which are encouraged, are required to be processed through the exchange control approval procedure, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals generally reflects the government's economic and investment policy guidelines. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective September 9, 2002, residents employed by offshore and foreign-based institutions in The Bahamas may invest in employee stock option/share purchase plans through the official exchange market up to B$ 10,000 a person a year, on a noncumulative basis for contributory plans. Otherwise, residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with off ic ial exchange, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the CBB and are normally ef- fected through authorized agents, who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions w i thout any fur ther approval from the CBB, at a 25% premium. All for- eign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by, or to the order of, an authorized agent. Sale proceeds from resident-held foreign currency securities that were registered at the CBB prior to December 31 ,1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Nonres ident buyers of Bahamian dollar-denominated securities must fund the acquisition of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on these securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment THE BAHAMAS 91 A resident company who l ly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Bahamian dollars, although approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency bor- rowing for f ixed capital purposes is determined in relation to residents' interest in the eq- u i ty of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permis- sion to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled directly or indirectly by nonresidents. How- ever, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manu- factured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet specifically authorized payments to nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The use of o f f ic ial exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$l m i l l ion a person or entity, with an overall limit of B$5 million a transaction, which may be met once every three years. (Prior to September 9, 2002, the limit was B$ 100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the investment, whichever was greater.) This limit is in respect to investments from which the additional benefits that are expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings w i th in 18 months of the investment will at least be equal to the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suit- able terms, subject to ind iv idual approval from the CBB; by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market; or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the bal- ance of payments. Inward direct investment CBB approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital appreciation, through the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents requ ire the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and ap- proval is limited to one property a fam i ly. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, w i th permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the o f f i- cial foreign exchange market. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners in tend ing to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit f rom the Investments Board. If such an application is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 THE BAHAMAS approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an ex- ternal source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase property for residen- t ial purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Investments Board on completion of the transaction. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The max imum amount an emigrant can transfer abroad is the equivalent of B$ 125,000 a fam i ly a year (effec t ive September 9, 2002; prior to this date, B$25,000). Excess amounts may be approved by the CBB on an ind iv idual basis. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Residents are not allowed to remit funds for gaming purposes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Prior exchange control approval is required if local real estate is offered as a security, Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is B$500,000 for both long and short positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign investments in domestic insurance companies and pension funds are not permitted, In the securities market, a Mu tual Funds Act and a regulation that provides for licensing of mutual funds administrators and the registration of mutual funds are enforced. The Securi- ties Indus try Act authorizes the Securities Commission to regulate the stock exchange and stock exchange operations. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 9. The approval authority for cash g i f ts up to B$ 10,000 a year is delegated to authorized banks. September 9. Au tho r i ty to approve allocation of foreign exchange for most current pay- ments ( inc lud ing for imports) up to B$500,000 (previously B$ 100,000) was delegated to authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 93 Imports and import payments September 9. Prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for non-oil im- ports exceeding B$500,000 (previously, B$ 100,000), irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers September 9. Approval was required for residents to hold an international credit card with a limit exceeding B$25,000 (previously, B$ 10,000). September 9. Authorized dealers may provide up to B$25,000 for education payments to institutions. This limit also applies to sundry payments. September 9. The limit delegated to authorized dealers (1) for tourism and other personal travel a person a year was increased to B$ 10,000 from B$l ,000 a person above the age of 18 years or B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years; (2) for travel for educational pur- poses, to B$ 10,000 from B$3,000; and (3) for business or professional travel, to B$50,000 from B$ 10,000. September 9. Residents employed by offshore and foreign-based institutions in the Baha- mas were permitted to invest in employee stock option/share purchase plans through the official exchange market up to B$ 10,000 a person a year on a noncumulative basis. September 9. The maximum amount of official exchange for direct investment abroad was increased to B$l million a person or entity with an overall limit of B$5 million a transac- tion, accessible every three years. Previously, the limit was the greater of B$ 100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the investment. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital transactions September 9. The maximum amount an emigrant family may transfer abroad was increased to B$ 125,000 from B$25,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Currency The currency of the Kingdom of Bahrain is the Bahrain dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The dinar is pegged to the dollar at a rate of BD 1 per $2.659. The Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) provides daily recommended rates to banks for amounts up to BD 1,000 in dollars. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commer- cial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for dollars. The banks' rates for other cur- rencies are based on the BMA's dollar rates and the New York market rates against the dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of banks' monthly returns. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on ex- change payments or receipts. No. Administration of control There is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade On January 19, 2002, the authorities of the Kingdom of Bahrain notified the IMF that (1) the BMA had imposed measures on the financing of terrorists and terrorism and the freezing of assets of certain individuals and organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1333 and 1373; and (2) the BMA had required all licensed banks to ensure diligence in examining their financial dealings with a list of persons and organizations. Yes. No. No. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 5% customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Bro- kers doing business in gold and other products must obtain BMA approval before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The Directorate General of Customs maintains a registry containing information on curren- cies imported and their importers. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 95 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange biidget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs If such documents are not available, imported goods may be released with a written prom- ise to submit the documents at a later date. Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages. All im- ports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in the Kingdom of Bahrain and member countries of the GCC, provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bahrain and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). The rates of customs duties on most products are zero and 5%. Tariffs of 125% and 100% apply to alcoholic beverages, and tobacco and tobacco products, respectively. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from inv is ib les f rom Israel are prohibited. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but transactions in money market instruments are controlled in accordance w i th the prov is ions of Am i ri Decree No. 4/2000 regarding the preven t ion and p roh ib i t ion of money launde r ing. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Subject to Amiri Decree No. 10/1999, GCC na t iona ls are allowed to own up to 100% and non-GCC na t iona ls are allowed to own up to 49% of the listed shares of a Bahraini jo in t- stock company. The percentage of ownership by non-GCC nationals may be increased, subject to approval from the M in is ter of Commerce and Industry. However, non-GCC na- t iona ls may purchase, sell, or own up to 100% of the shares of the fo l low ing seven compa- nies: the Arab Banking Corporation, the Bahrain International Bank, Investcorp Bank, the Bahrain M idd le East Bank, Taib Bank, Shamil Islamic Bank, and the Arab Insurance Group. Purchases, sales, and ownersh ip of shares are subject to the requ iremen ts of anti- money laundering regulations. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Although residency in Bahrain is not required, local sales and issues by nonresidents are subject to BMA regu la t ions, the Bahraini Commercial Companies Law, the Bahraini Stock Exchange (BSE) Law, and the law on prevention and proh ib i t ion of money laundering. Purchase abroad by residents There are no restrictions on these transactions, provided that the regulations of the foreign ju r i sd i c t ion concerned are satisfied. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing purchases abroad by res iden ts apply. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance of bonds and other debt securities is subject to the Commercial Companies Law. Sales of listed bonds and other debt secur i t ies are subject to the BSE Law. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts The regu la t ions governing the sale or issue locally of shares or other securities of a partici- pating na ture by residents apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing the purchase abroad of shares or other securities of a participat- ing na ture by residents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Yes. No. No. Direct investments are regulated in accordance with the Commercial Companies Law, BMA regu la t ions, the BSE Law (subject to the f ie ld of investment), and the anti-money launder ing law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 97 Inward direct investment GCC nationals are allowed to own 100% of the shares of domestic enterprises, and non- GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% of offshore, closed joint-stock, and limited l iab i l i ty companies; and 49% in other companies, with the exception of a few strategic sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 40/1999, there are no restrictions on ownership of real estate by GCC nationals (either natural or juridical persons). The ownership of real estate by nonresidents is regulated by Legislative Decree No. 2/2001. Nonresidents (both natural and jur id ical persons) are allowed to own buildings and property only in locations specified in the Council of Ministers Regulation No. 5/2001, which in- clude most of the prestigious and tourist areas. In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 2/2001, commercial, tourism, and industrial companies, as well as banking and f inanc ial institutions that are licensed to operate in Bahrain, may own real estate w i thout restriction. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits without exchange control restrictions. Licensed offshore banking units may engage freely in transactions with nonresidents, although transactions with residents are not nor- mally permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are allowed to set their own individual limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2002 January 19. The au thor i t ies of the Kingdom of Bahrain no t if ied the IMF that (1) the BMA had imposed measures on the f inanc ing of terrorists and terrorism and the freezing of assets of certain ind iv idua ls and organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1333 and 1373; and (2) the BMA had required all licensed banks to ensure diligence in examining their financial dealings with a list of persons and organizations (as of this date, the list comprised 39 names). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 11 ,1994. Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Bangladesh Bank (BB) announces a buying-selling rate band for the dollar against the taka for its transactions with authorized dealer (AD) banks. Trends of the real effective exchange rate of the taka against a trade-weighted basket of currencies of major trade part- ners, as well as of other major external and internal sector indicators, are analyzed to moni- tor the external competitiveness of the exchange rate. ADs set their own buying and selling rates for the dollar and other currencies, based on cross rates in international markets. No. No. ADs may buy and sell foreign-currency forwards but must cover forward sales with for- ward purchases. ADs are permitted to retain working balances with foreign correspondent banks. Currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are effected against underlying approved commercial transactions. Effective October 26, 2002, ADs may make forward sales only against forward purchases. Official cover of forward operations The BB does not deal in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements norma l ly take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, through non- resident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries must be effected through the ACU and in un i ts denominated in AMUs (equivalent in value to the dollar). Payments for imports may be made to any country (with the exception of countries from which im- ports are prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresi- dent bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any free ly convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely con- vertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative There is an operative bilateral payments arrangement w i th Myanmar. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Bangladesh is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the BB in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation w i th the MOF. Licenses are issued to banks as ADs in foreign exchange. The Chief Con tro l ler of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Reg- istered importers may make their imports in terms of the IPO against LCs. LC authorization forms (LCAFs) are issued by ADs and do not require a separate import license. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 99 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On January 11, 2002, the Bangladesh authorities notified the IMF that banks and other financial institutions had been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions On the basis of a UN Security Council resolution, all settlements with the Taliban, Iraq, and Serbia and Montenegro, as well as imports of diamonds from Sierra Leone, are prohibited. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver or- naments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. The importation and exportation of gold and silver require special permission. However, adult female travelers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and silver for the export/manufacture of jewelry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. A resident or a nonresident may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry or up to the equivalent of $5,000 brought in without declaration. Foreign tourists may reconvert unspent taka funds at ADs upon production of documentary evidence that the taka were acquired through a conversion of foreign exchange that had been brought into the country. Residents may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to the equivalent of $5,000 brought in without declaration when returning from a previous visit abroad. The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to the equivalent of $5,000, but larger amounts should be declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible curren- cies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign cur- rency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without re- striction, but are subject to reporting to the BB. Residents returning from abroad may br ing in any amount of foreign currency and may ma in ta in a resident foreign currency deposit account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions arising from business deals in Bangladesh may not be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 BANGLADESH manner. These accounts may be opened in do l lars, euros, pounds sterling, and Japanese yen. Local and joint-venture contracting firms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or in terna t ional agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency ac- counts may also be opened in the names of d ip loma t ic missions in Bangladesh, the ir expa- triates, the UN and its agencies, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). For- eign currency accounts may be opened in the name of resident Bangladesh nationals work ing for foreign or international organizations operating in Bangladesh if the ir salaries are paid in foreign currency. Exporters are permitted to open Exporters' Retention Quota accounts against a certain percentage of the repatriated export proceeds. Residents who opened an account abroad when residing abroad may maintain it after re tu rn ing to Bangladesh. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency All foreign na t iona ls, regardless of the ir status, may ma in ta in convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited f ree ly with the proceeds of inward remittances in foreign currency and may be debited for local payments in taka as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Bangladesh na t iona ls residing abroad; foreign na t iona ls, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial ins t i tu t ions, in c lud ing ins t i tu t ional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government ins t i tu t ions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts that bear interest and are denominated in dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These ac- counts may be credited in in i t ial m in imum amoun ts equ iva lent to $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in convertible currencies and transfers from existing for- eign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladesh na t iona ls abroad. The accounts bear interest if their terms range from one month to one year. Bangladesh nationals may maintain a foreign currency account abroad wh i le residing abroad and may con t inue to hold the account after re turn ing to Bangladesh. The balance, inc lud ing interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account ho lder to any country or to any foreign cur- rency deposit account maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are f ree ly convertible into taka, must be reported mon th ly by banks to the BB. Non res ident Bang ladesh is who do not open or ma in ta in a resident foreign currency deposit account wh i le abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit account w i th fore ign exchange brought in f rom abroad w i th in six mon ths of the date of the ir return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. All nonres ident accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the coun try in wh ich the account holder is a permanent resident. (The accounts of the UN and its agencies are treated as resident accounts.) Nonres ident fore ign currency accounts may be opened by ADs w i thout prior approval from the BB for Bangladesh na t iona ls and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account ho lder's absence by ADs w i thout p r ior approval f rom the BB. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout pr ior approval f rom the BB, but are subject to ex post reporting. Foreign missions and embassies, the ir expatriate personnel, foreign a i r l ine and shipping companies, and international nonprof it organizations in Bangladesh may open interest- bearing accounts, but the interest earned may be disbursed on ly in local currency. For port- folio investments in Bangladesh, a nonresident may open a nonresident investors' taka account (NITA) w i th any AD w i th foreign exchange remitted from abroad through normal bank ing channels or through transfer of funds from a foreign currency account. These ac- coun ts may be used to effect all approved current transactions. Convertible into foreign currency Only funds from NITAs and convertible taka accounts may be converted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 101 Blocked accounts Amoun ts in nonresident taka accounts covering unapproved payments may be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements E f fec t ive Janua ry 31, 2002, the margin requ irement for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and wheat was reduced to 25% from 100%. On February 18, 2002, banks were au- thorized to freely negotiate with importers the margin requirements on LCs for imports of goods used in industrial production. E f fec t ive December 10, 2002, the margin requirement for the open ing of LCs against imports of rice, sugar, and wheat was increased to 100%. Advance payments for up to the value of $2,500 may be made for certain imports. The BB allows other advance payments covering imports of specialized or capital goods, u su a l ly against a guarantee from a first-class overseas bank. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit An inspection is required for all imports, with a few exceptions. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable LCs. However, a consignment of perishable food items not exceeding $7,500 or its equivalent in value may be imported overland w i thout LCs; capital machinery and industrial raw materi- als may also be imported w i thout LCs. Recognized export-oriented un i ts operating under the bonded warehouse system may import up to four months' requirements of the ir raw and packing materials by establishing import LCs without reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (either on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or up to 180 days on a usance basis) against export LCs received by them. ADs may establish LCs on an f.o.b. basis w i thout the approval of the BB, subject to certain conditions. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided auto- matically by ADs when payments are due. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas All importers ( inc lud ing all government departments, with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain LCAFs for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO is- sued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs that are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except for imports from Israel and imports transported on Israeli flag vessels, which are prohibited. Goods must be shipped w i th in 18 mon ths of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts, and 12 months in the case of all other items. Items not specified in the control l ist of the IPO may be imported free ly, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The control list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the fou r -d ig it level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited for pub l ic safety, re l ig ious, environmental, and social reasons, or if similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted pu r e ly for trade purposes (7 of wh ich are banned and 19 restricted). E f fec t ive Janua ry 2, 2002, exports of polybags were banned. All items not on the control list may be imported f ree ly by registered importers. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by indus tr ial consumers are gov- erned by an en t i t lement system, based on the requ i remen ts for various industries du r ing each import program period established by the Board of Investment (BOI). Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 BANGLADESH Import taxes and/or tariffs does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that may be imported freely but ap- plies to items appearing on the control list. Separate LCAFs may be issued to industrial consumers of machinery parts and accessories. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and may not be sold or trans- ferred w i thout prior approval. There are five tariff bands: zero, 5%, 15%, 25%, and 37.5%. A number of goods are subject to regulatory duties, import license fees, and infrastructure development charges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses With quotas Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment unless otherwise permitted by the BB. Exporters are required to surrender to ADs 92.5% of the proceeds from exports of ready-made garments and other goods with high import content, and 60% of the proceeds from exports of computer data entry and software services; they may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad; estab- l ishment and maintenance of offices abroad; participation in trade fairs and seminars; and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. Fully foreign-owned industries and jo int ventures or Bangladesh industries, other than in the garment industry, located in export-processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 100% and 80%, respectively, of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account. Joint ventures and Bangladesh indus- tries in the ready-made garment sector located in EPZs may retain 75% of their export earn- ings in a foreign currency deposit account. No. Yes. Yes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, while others are restricted to ensure the supply in the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all restricted items. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports imposes quotas on garment exports on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use to reallocate u n f i l l ed quotas. Export taxes Exports of jute are taxed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for inv i s ib les related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. There are controls on administrative expenses and commissions. Payments for un load ing and storage services require prior approval. Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad for commissions with- out prior approval from the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments ADs are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders without prior approval from the BB upon the receipt of applications from the companies concerned. Applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet; a profit-and-loss account; and a board reso- lu t ion declaring d iv idends from profits earned from foreign firms, banks, insurance compa- nies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh to their head offices. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 103 Prior approval No approval is required if loan agreements have been cleared by the BOI. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit for personal travel by resident Bangladesh na t iona ls to countries other than Bhu- tan, Ind ia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a person a year or its equ iva len t; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $1,000. For new ex- porters, the indicative limit for business travel is $6,000 a person a year or its equivalent, wh i le established exporters are permitted to use balances held under the Export Retention Scheme (7.5% of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manufac turers producing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equivalent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the value of imports, respectively. There is an annual ceiling of $5,000 or its equivalent in both cases. Amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts require documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transaction. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign exchange for education is available up to the cost of tuition and living expenses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. Prior permission is not required for the remittance of fees for approved undergraduate, postgraduate, and professional courses. Foreign exchange is available for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a cer- t if ica te from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level that is based on p reva i l ing prices. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions. Up to $10,000 or its equivalent may be obtained for medical expenses without prior ap- proval. Larger amounts may be obtained with approval of the BB after submission of documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test App l ica t ions for foreign exchange for studies abroad and for fam i ly maintenance are ap- proved upon ver if ica t ion of the ir bona fide nature. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign na t iona ls may remit free ly up to 50% of net salary in connection with service con- tracts approved by the government. The entire amount of their earned leave pay and savings may also be freely remitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval General approval is given for credit card use by exporters against the foreign exchange retention entitlement and for use by other residents against the travel allowance. Credit cards may be used up to the amounts authorized for travel allowances and up to balances held in retention quota accounts. P r ior permission is not required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales by f irms that are registered with the BOI. Indicative limits/bona fide test Industrial enterprises producing for local markets may remit up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the previous year's tax return for the purpose of training and consultancy. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Exporters of services are requ i red to surrender to ADs 95% of the proceeds (60% in the case of proceeds from computer services) and may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonres ident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 BANGLADESH sp e c i f i c a l ly exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh na t iona ls who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an AD w i t h in one month of the date of acquisition. However, returning resi- den ts may keep, in fore ign currency accounts opened in the ir names, foreign exchange brought in at the t ime of return from abroad, provided that the amount does not represent proceeds from exports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Res iden ts may re ta in up to $5,000 or its equ iva lent brought into the country w i thout dec lara t ion. Foreign na t iona ls res id ing in Bangladesh con t inuous ly for more than six months are required to surrender w i th in one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange represen t ing the ir earnings w i th respect to bus iness conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered w h i le in Bangladesh. Restrictions on use of funds Re ta ined fore ign exchange may be used for travel abroad or bona fide business purposes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Pu rchase loca l ly by non r e s id en ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Non res iden ts may buy Bangladesh securities through stock exchanges against payment in free ly convertible currency remitted from abroad through banking channels. Proceeds from sales, inc lud ing capital gains and dividends earned on securities purchased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in f ree ly conver t ib le currency. Nonres iden ts may not issue secu r i t ies in Bangladesh. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non re s iden ts Pu rchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins t rumen ts These transactions are not allowed. On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents These transac t ions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are not a l lowed. Purchase abroad by residents These t ransac t ions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents These t ransac t ions are subject to pr ior approval of the Secur i t ies and Exchange Commis- s ion. If an in s t rum ent is denominated in foreign currency, prior BB approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non r e s id en ts These t ransac t ions are not allowed. Pu rcha se abroad by re s iden ts ADs may ob ta in hedg ing abroad against exchange rate risks on unde r ly ing trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 105 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export payments deferred for more than 120 days requ ire BB authorization. To residents from nonresidents Deferred import payments are permitted for up to 360 days for equipment and machinery and for up to 180 days for indus tr ial raw materials. Private industrial un i ts may borrow funds from abroad with the approval of the BOI. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in specific cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. To residents from nonresidents ADs may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts f rom overseas branches and correspon- dents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Banks may issue guarantees/sureties in favor of nonresidents in relation to permissible current transactions on behalf of residents. To residents from nonresidents Receipt of guarantees/sureties by residents from abroad requires fu ll disclosure of the underlying transaction. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All outward transfers of capital require approval. For resident-owned capital, approval is granted only in exceptional cases. Investments, except in the industrial sector, require approval. The Foreign Private Invest- ment (Promotion and Protection) Act provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationali- zation, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on the location. Requests for repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of direct investment (in unlisted companies) are subject to prior scrutiny of the BB; however, proceeds from the disinvest- ment of nonresidents' equity investments in unlisted public limited companies and in pri- vate limited companies may be repatriated freely. When a nonresident liquidates invest- ment through a sale to a resident investor, the net asset value of the shares of the company is used as the basis for ca lcu la t ing the repatriation of proceeds. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident with funds from abroad are allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Repatriation of sales proceeds are subject to prior approval by the BB, which is not normally granted. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are not allowed, except for borrowings by industrial enterprises in accordance with BOI guidelines and/or approval. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfers of t i t le to nonresidents by way of inheritances are not restricted, but income and sales proceeds from such assets are not normally transferable abroad and are required to be used locally w i th prior authorization from the BB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BANGLADESH To residents from nonresidents A resident Bangladesh national must obtain prior approval from the government to receive gifts or endowments from a foreign donor. Inheritances must be reported to the BB. Net current income from estates inherited abroad must be repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are norma l ly not allowed, except for repayments on borrowing for in- dustrial investments in accordance with BOI guidelines. Transfer of assets These transactions are not allowed, except for movable personal effects. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are not allowed, except for the normal travel allowances that are allowed to residents. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions are permitted, subject to a requirement that transfers exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited in Bangladesh. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The regu la t ions governing financial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of these accounts is subject to notification to the BB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not allowed, except with prior BB approval and in specific cases. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Lending is subject to prior approval from the BB. ADs are permitted to use up to 50% of nonresident foreign currency deposit balances for (1) lending to exporters for settlement of back-to-back sight LCs imports of inputs, and (2) discounting usance bills of wholly foreign-owned (type "A") EPZ units against input supplies to exporters. Purchases are subject to prior approval from the BB. Banks are required to maintain interest rates on foreign currency deposits in line with inter- national market rates. ADs are authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by the ir correspondent banks of other ACU member countries. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts In accordance with BB limits, authorized dealers' net open positions may not exceed 12.5% of their capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts October 26. ADs were required to make forward sales of currencies only against forward purchases. January 11. The Bangladesh authorities notified the IMF that banks and other financial institutions had been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of indi- viduals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and import payments BANGLADESH 107 January 31. The margin requirement for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and wheat was reduced to 25% from 100%. February 18. Banks were allowed to negotiate free ly with importers the margin require- ments on LCs for imports of goods used in industrial production. December 10. The margin requirement for opening LCs against imports of rice, sugar, and wheat was increased to 100% from 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: November 3, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados dollar. Gold co ins w i th face values of BDS$50, BDSS IOO, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDSS500 are legal tender and are in l im i ted c i rcu la t ion. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements C lea r ing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control The Barbados do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling are also o f f i c i a l ly quoted on the basis of the ir cross-rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates inc lude commission charges of 0.125% buying and 1.75% selling against the U.S. do l la r, and 0.1875% buy ing and 1.8125% se l l ing against the Canadian dollar, euro, and pound s te r l ing. Certain businesses are allowed to change foreign currency. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) per iod ica l ly obtains forward cover in the interna- t ional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central government's ex- change risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The CBB and commercial banks enter in to swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while com- merc ial banks f ree ly switch between nonregional currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with resi- den ts of CARICOM coun tr ies other than Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM country. Settlements with residents of Jamaica, Sur iname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in U.S. dollars. CBB permission is re- qu i red for re ta il ou t le ts to issue change in the same foreign currency in which purchases were made. Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under c lea r ing arrangements w i th regional monetary authorities, the CBB currently sells on ly three CARICOM coun t ry currencies: the Bahamian dollar, the Eastern Caribbean do l la r, and the Belize dollar. The Tr in idad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jamaica dollars float against the U.S. dollar, and the CBB sets indicative selling rates based on rates supplied by the mone tary au tho r i t ies of these countries. These rates are applicable on ly to government t ransac t ions. Exchange con t rol app l ies to all countries, except those in the OECS, and is administered by the CBB, wh ich delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve normal import paymen ts and fore ign exchange for cash g if ts. Further authority is delegated to commerc ial banks in respect of current account transactions ranging from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, Consumer A f f a i rs and Bus iness Deve lopment (MCCABD). The au tho r i ty to approve payments to OECS coun t r ies is delegated to ADs. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency BARBADOS 109 No. No. Residents, other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and indus t r ial users, are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry or coins for num isma t ic purposes. Any gold acqu ired in Barbados must be surrendered to an AD, un less exchange con t rol approval is ob ta ined for its re ten t ion. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for indus tr ial purposes and is subject to customs du t ies and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the MCCABD. Ex- change control permission is requ i red to export gold. Travelers may take out up to BDSS500. Travelers may take out up to the equ iv a l ent of BOSS 1,000. Non r e s id ent v i s i to rs may export f ree ly any fore ign currency they p rev iou s ly b rought in. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Subject to specific cond i t ions under delegated authority, ADs may ma in ta in fore ign cur- rency accounts in the names of ind iv idua ls and companies resident in Barbados whose an- nual earnings are at least BDS$50,000 and BDS$ 100,000, respectively. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and deb i ted to fore ign currency accounts und er cond i t ions estab- lished at the t ime the account is opened. Other credits and deb i ts requ i re ind iv idu al ap- proval. In cases where au tho r i ty has not been delegated to ADs, the permission of the CBB is requ ired. Companies opera t ing in Barbados and ea rn ing a m i n im um of the fo re ign cu r- rency equ iva lent of BDS$ 100,000 a year are allowed to ma in ta in fore ign currency accounts up to the equ iva lent of BDS$50,000 w i thout reference to the CBB Approval is g iven on the basis of the an t ic ipa ted f r e q u e n cy of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Residents are a l lowed to ho ld fo re ign exchange accoun ts abroad w i th perm iss ion of the CBB. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Permission of the CBB is requ i red. Perm iss ion of the CBB is requ i red. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions governing resident accounts apply. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other external accounts, w i th bank interest, and with payments by residents for wh ich the CBB has g iven general or spec if ic pe rm iss ion. The accoun ts may be deb i ted for payments to res iden ts of Barbados for the cost of fo re ign exchange requ i red for travel or bus iness purposes and for any other payment covered by delegated au tho r i ty to ADs. O ther debits and any ove rd ra f ts requ i re ind i v idu al approval. Convertible in to fore ign currency Ba lances on ex ternal accoun ts are conv e r t ib l e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 Approval requ i red Blocked accounts BARBADOS Non res ident holders of foreign currency accounts are not required to obtain central bank approval to remit funds abroad when the funds were not the result of payment for trade or nontrade transactions. The CBB may requ ire certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be with- drawn w i thout approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements ADs may release foreign exchange up to the equivalent of BDS$250,000 (c.i.f.) for ad- vance payments for imports in to Barbados. Other advance payments require the prior ap- proval of the CBB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to ADs; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Certain imports requ ire ind iv idual licenses. Some items on the import-licensing list may be f ree ly imported throughout the year, wh i le others are subject to temporary restrictions (par- t i cu l a r ly ag r icu l tu ral products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. V incen t, and Trinidad and Tobago whether the goods are being im- ported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regu la t ion of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agr icu l tural commodities. Not all goods that are subject to licensing are subject to quantitative restrictions or import surcharges. Customs du t ies corresponding to the four th phase of the CARICOM CET are in the range of 5-20%. A VAT of 15% is levied. Tariffs ranging from 20% to over 200% apply to im- ports of prepared meats, detergents, and T-shirts. Chicken heads, backs, and necks; onions; and sugar may be imported only by the Barbados Ag r icu l tu ral Development and Marke t ing Corporation, and milk may be imported only by the P ine H i ll Dairy. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds must be sold to an AD w i th in six mon ths, but exporters may apply for exemptions. F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes Spec if ic licenses are requ ired for the exportation of certain goods to any country, inc lud ing rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and pe tro leum products. All other goods may be exported w i thout license. Yes. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the Un i ted States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS in Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the quantitative limits. Effective June 1, 2002, commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments for insur- ance, freight, advertising, commissions, and fees relating to imports. Commercial banks must report these transfers to the CBB (previously, these were subject to a BDS$250,000 limit). The limit on unloading, storage costs, and administrative expenses is BDS$250,000 a transaction. Yes. Yes. The limit for principal and interest payments is BDS$50,000 a year for individuals. Com- mercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad of profits and dividends to nonresident beneficiaries in and residents of CARICOM member countries. For payments of profits and dividends to residents of non-CARICOM member countries, approval is re- quired for amounts above BDSS250,000. The limit for listed companies from the CARICOM region on the securities exchange of Barbados is BDS$3 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are BDS$7,500 a person a calendar year for private travel, and BDSS750 a day for business travel, up to BDS$50,000 a person a calendar year. Effective June 1, 2002, commercial banks have the authority to approve all payments for cash currency swaps by in-port ships and cruise liners. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the limit. Payments for medical treatment and stud- ies abroad require approval from a commercial bank based on appropriate documentation. There are no limits on payments for medical treatment or studies abroad. The limit on cash gifts is BDS$5,000 a person a year; that for alimony and other maintenance is BDS$50,000 a person a year. Nonresidents may have their pensions remitted to them while residing out- side Barbados. Effective June 1, 2002, commercial banks are permitted to approve all pay- ments in respect of bequests or inheritances that are due to beneficiaries resident in CARICOM countries, under the terms of the wills of persons who were resident or under the rules governing resident intestates for exchange control purposes. Beneficiaries residing outside the CARICOM are permitted to transfer abroad bequests or inheritances at the rate of BDS$ 100,000 a year. Previously, transfers were permitted at the rate of BDS$30,000 a year. Commercial banks must however continue to report such transfer to the CBB. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are allowed to remit amounts to cover commitments while employed in Barbados. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad for entrance and subscrip- tion fees due to nonresident credit and travel card companies. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 BARBADOS Quantitative limits The l im i ts are the same as for travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad for charges and fees with respect to granting and registration of patents, designs, and trademarks. Approval is required for amounts above the limit. The l im it for subscriptions and membership fees is BDS$50,000 a person a year, and, for consulting and legal fees, BDS$ 100,000 for each nonresident beneficiary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from inv is ib les must be sold to ADs. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Capital account transactions w i th the ECCB area dominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars are free of controls, except for transactions in debt issues of OECS governments. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Purchases and sales of shares and securities of companies cross-listed and cross-traded on any CARICOM stock exchange are permitted up to a l im it of BDS$3 million a transaction. This l im it excludes any government securities cross-listed or cross-traded on those stock exchanges. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require ex- change control approval, wh ich is free ly given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for the ir purchase. These purchases requ ire exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados except for regional securities purchased through the Securities Exchange of Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an AD. Sale or issue abroad by residents Exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities The regu la t ions governing shares and other securities of a participating na ture apply. On money market ins t rumen ts The regu la t ions governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment secur i t ies The regu la t ions governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Direct investments require exchange control approval. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment L iqu ida t ion of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the va l id i ty of the rem i t tance is submitted, all l iab i l i t ies related to the investment have been discharged, and the o r ig inal investment was registered w i th the CBB. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by res iden ts Purchases requ i re exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 1 13 Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts may acqu i re real estate in Barbados for pr iva te purposes w i th funds f rom foreign currency sources; local currency f in an c ing is not o rd ina r i ly permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Proceeds from the rea l iza t ion of such inves tmen ts equ iv a l ent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of th is amount may be repatriated f ree ly on the basis of a ca lcu la ted annual rate of return on the o r ig inal fore ign inves tment as fo l lows: for the last f ive years, at 8%; for the f ive years immed ia te ly preceding the last f ive years, at 5%; and for any period preced ing the last ten years, at 4%. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to remittances of BDS$30,000 a year. Loans Exchange control permission is required for the granting or receiving of loans. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The annual l im it is BDS$5,000 for gifts, and effec t ive June 1, 2002, BDS$ 100,000 (previ- ously BDS$30,000) for endowments, inhe r i tances, and legacies. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants The limit is BDS$ 100,000. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Nonresidents may take out w inn ing s. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Any borrowing abroad by ADs to f inance the ir domestic operations requ i res the approval of the CBB. ADs may assume short-term l iab i l i ty positions in foreign currencies for the fi- nanc ing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts must be maintained w i th overseas correspondent banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Exchange control permission is required. Investment in local securities requires CBB approval. Effective November 1, 2002, the reserve requirement ratio on deposits in foreign exchange is 21%, of wh ich 16% must be ma in ta ined in s t ipu la ted government secu r i t ies and 5% in cash. P rev iou s ly, the overa ll reserve requ i rement was 24% w i th a cash reserve of 5%. There is no l i q u i d i ty requ i rement on deposits in fo re ign exchange. There is a l i q u id asset requ irement of 24% for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, of wh ich 11% must be placed in treasury b i l ls, 8% in government debentures, and 5% in cash. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident deposit accounts are treated the same as resident deposit accounts. D i f fe ren t ial treatment is based on whether the amount is in domestic currency. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits on working balances are set by the CBB. Those on other assets and l iab i l i t ies are controlled through the Exchange Control Act. If a bank has a short pos i t ion in forward transactions, it may ma in ta in a long spot pos i t ion equ iva lent to 20% of the short pos i t ion in forward transac t ions or 15% of spot l i ab i l i t i e s, wh ichever is h igher. If a bank does not have a short position in forward transactions, it may ma in ta in a long spot position equivalent to 15% of spot l i a b i l i t i e s. Banks must report week ly to the Foreign Exchange, and Export Credits Department of the CBB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 BARBADOS Provisions specific to institutional investors Approval is required for investment of pension funds abroad. A 6% tax is levied on portfo- lio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Changes During 2002 June L Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments for insurance and freight related to imports of goods into Barbados. Commercial banks must however con- t inue to report such transfers to the CBB. Previously, these transactions were subject to a l im i to fBDS$250 ,000. June 1. Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments for advertising, com- missions, and fees due by Barbadian firms and companies to their agents and representa- tives outside Barbados. Commercial banks must however continue to report such transfers to the CBB. June 1. Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments for cash currency swaps by in-port ships and cruise liners. June L Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments in respect of bequests or inher i tances that are due to beneficiaries resident in CARICOM countries, under the terms of the w i l ls of persons who were resident or under the rules governing resident intestates for exchange control purposes. Beneficiaries residing outside the CARICOM were permit- ted to transfer abroad bequests or inher i tances at the rate of BDS$ 100,000 a year. Previ- ously, transfers were permitted at the rate of BDS$30,000 a year. Commercial banks must however con t inue to report such transfer to the CBB. November L A total reserve requirement was set at 21%, of which 16% must be stipulated in government securities and 5% in cash. Previously, the overall reserve requirement was 24% w i th a cash reserve of 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 5, 2001. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belarus is the Belarusian rubel. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The rubel is de facto pegged to the Russian ruble under a system in which the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) sets the official exchange rate against the Russian ruble that is based on the results of the trading sessions on the Belarus Currency and Stock Exchange (BCSE) and this official rate is adjusted quarterly within an announced narrow path. To contain inflationary expectations, the NBB also takes into account the exchange rate of the rubel against the dollar during quarterly adjustments in the official rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. n.a. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same provisions as the spot market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements of transactions between residents and nonresidents are effected in freely con- vertible currencies. Settlements in other currencies and Belarusian rubels are effected if so provided for by intergovernmental agreements or arrangements between the central banks of both parties to the settlements. However, settlements in Belarusian rubels between resi- dents and nonresidents of the countries with which such arrangements have been concluded may be effected only through the accounts of these nonresidents and through correspondent accounts in Belarusian rubels of those banks opened with authorized banks of Belarus. Settlements with nonresidents in rubels are also allowed regardless of the existence of an agreement, provided the nonresident has the appropriate rubel account at a bank in Belarus. In accordance with the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payment Union of Member Countries of the CIS and bilateral payment agreements between Belarus and the central banks of those countries, settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries are ef- fected in the national currencies of the parties involved in the settlements, in the currencies of the Payment Union Member Countries of the CIS, and in freely convertible currencies, in accordance with legislation in effect within the territory of the country. Settlements be- tween Belarus and CIS member countries and the Baltic countries are effected using non- cash procedures through correspondent accounts of authorized banks and central banks. In accordance with bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of the CIS countries, on ly settlements for operations ensuing from the functions of central banks are effected via correspondent accounts of central banks. Settlements for all other transactions are effected through correspondent accounts of authorized banks. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Yes. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 BELARUS Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Settlements between residents in foreign currency are prohibited, except in cases estab- lished by laws or the NBB. Yes. There are arrangements with Moscow and various other regions in Russia. An agreement with Uzbekistan provides for the exchange of cotton for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements with Moldova and Ukraine. The parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for adm in is ter ing them. The exchange regulation and control authorities are the Council of Ministers, the NBB, the State Control Committee, and the State Customs Committee. The exchange control agents are banks, customs offices, ministries, associations, and other bod- ies of the state administration. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents (other than banks) are required to have a license issued by the MOF to engage in transactions in precious metals and stones. When effecting banking operations with pre- cious metals and stones, banks are required to have a license issued by the NBB. Banks must obtain a license from the MOF to engage in nonbanking operations in precious metals and stones. Controls on external trade Licenses for residents to export precious metals and stones are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of 100 times the Belarusian m in imum wage. Effective March 14, 2003, resident and nonresident natural persons may freely export the equ iva lent of $10,000 (previously, $1,500) —amounts greater than this require documentary evidence ce r t i fy ing the o r ig in of funds. Traveler's checks in foreign currencies may be exported without restriction, but they must be declared. Exports of foreign currencies to states pa r t ic ipa t ing in the customs un ion are un l im i ted. The import of up to the equ iva lent of 100 times the Belarusian m in imum wage is allowed. There are no limitations on imports of foreign currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically W i thout dec la r ing the sources of the ir foreign exchange, residents may open foreign cur- rency accounts at commercial banks authorized to transact in foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 117 Held abroad These accounts are permitted; however, NBB approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are prohibited from opening domestic currency accounts abroad. Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign currency: (1) to pay for imports of goods, labor, and services; (2) to pay for business travel and training expenses abroad; (3) to repay credits and loans granted by authorized banks in Belarus or by nonresidents and pay inter- est thereon; and (4) to make a number of other transactions that have been specified by the NBB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident ju r id ical persons may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts w i th authorized banks in Belarus. The source of the funds may be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sales of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, including sales to residents; debt- service payments; interest earned on balances on the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments from the performance of other operations with residents and nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be f ree ly repatriated or ex- changed for Belarusian rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Approval from the central bank concerned is required to open accounts for nonresidents if this requirement is contained in the arrangement governing the settlements. Nonres ident ju r id ical persons may open I (investment), T (current), and S (investment in government securities) accounts at authorized commercial banks. I accounts may be cred- ited with the Belarusian rubel funds arising from foreign exchange sales, dividends, re- sources from the l iqu ida t ion of enterprises, and compensation in the event of the nationali- zation of enterprises. Resources from I accounts may be used to purchase foreign currency, shares of enterprises, privatization checks, etc. T accounts are used for current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and of goods and services, and resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt ob l iga t ions of banks, etc., are transferred into them. Resources from T accounts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expenditures. Nonres iden ts may purchase foreign currency with Belarusian rubels from T accounts and correspondent accounts of nonres ident banks opened at authorized banks in Belarus. Funds in S accounts are used for investments in securities issued by the Belarusian government and the NBB. Proceeds from the sale of f ree ly convertible currencies and/or Russian rubles, as we ll as proceeds from the redemption or sale of government and NBB securities by non- residents, are deposited in S accounts if the original purchases were made with payments from S accounts. Balances on T, I, and S accounts may be converted into foreign currency. In these opera- tions, balances on S accounts may be converted into foreign currency, provided that the nonresident was a holder of securities of the government or the NBB for a time period established by the NBB. Opening of accounts for nonresidents is subject to approval of the central banks of the coun try of nonres iden ts concerned if th is regulation is contained in the arrangements governing settlements between Belarus and the country concerned. Blocked accounts n.a. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements For down payments for goods or services exceeding the equ iva lent of $100,000, a foreign bank guarantee is requ ired. For payments for imported services more than 90 days in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 BELARUS advance of the performance of the services and for imported goods more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the goods, permission from the Ministry of Trade (MOT) is required; for advance payment of more than 180 days, NBB approval is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are required for imports of the following goods: alcoholic beverages and ethyl alcohol made from food materials (under quotas); raw cane; white sugar; plant-protecting chemicals; industrial waste; slag; tobacco products; and albumin additives used for animal fodder. There are prohibitions on importing production and consumption wastes that cannot be processed or used in Belarus and on printed matter, audiovisual materials, and other infor- mation media containing information that may harm the political or economic interests or security of Belarus, or the health and morals of Belarusian citizens. Quantitative restrictions are applied to raw cane and sugar, alcohol, and tobacco products. Belarus has abolished customs controls and customs processing of goods moving between Belarus and Russia. Steps are being taken to establish a uniform trade policy with third countries, in particular, Vietnam and Serbia and Montenegro. The tariff structure consists of higher rates that apply to goods such as weapons, ammunition, precious metal products, carpets, motor vehicles, alcohol, and certain others. Seasonal tariffs apply to raw cane and sugar. Regular (base) import duty rates apply to countries with MFN status. Duties at twice the MFN rates are imposed on goods imported from countries that do not have MFN status. VAT is collected on imports from all countries except Georgia and Russia. Excise taxes are collected on imports from all countries, with the exception of goods from Russia that are marked with excise tax stamps. About 60% of tariff nomenclature has been un i f ied between Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia and, to a lesser extent, between Belarus, the Kyrgyz Re- public, and Tajikistan. Effective March 1, 2002, precious metal ingots imported by banks for purposes of banking operations and by jur id ical persons for purposes of selling to banks are exempt from cus- toms duties and the VAT; also exempted are sales by juridical persons to banks, transac- tions between banks, and sales by banks to natural persons (Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus No. 103 dated February 15, 2002). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports of goods and services must be repatriated within 90 days, and pro- ceeds from other exports of goods and services produced by residents under commission contracts must be repatriated within 180 days. Special MOT approval is required for longer time periods, and special NBB approval is required for periods exceeding 180 days. Surrender requirements Financing requirements The surrender requirement is 30%. No. Documentation requirements A transaction certificate or a statistical declaration is required. Export licenses Licenses are required for exports of the following goods: fabrics made of wool yarn; cotton thread, yarn, and fabric; thread from chemical fibers; yarn and fabric made of artificial and synthetic fibers and blended fibers; cable and rope products; terry cloth towels and similar terry cloth fabrics; interwoven interlocking fabrics; socks and hosiery articles; knitted clothing accessories; textile clothing and accessories; blankets, throws, and bed, table, bath, and kitchen linens; dishcloths; curtains, window shades, and bedspreads; sacks; paper bags; floor cleaning fabrics; and sets consisting of fabrics and yarn (only for goods to be exported to the EU and Turkey). In addition, exports of the following goods are effected on the basis of MOT-issued licenses: mushrooms, cranberries and blueberries, grains, flax seeds and rape seeds, alcohol products, ethyl alcohol, raw amber, burned pyrites, unprocessed lumber, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 119 decorative tiles, mineral fertilizers (within allocated quotas), precious metals and precious stones in any form or state, crude oil and oil products, raw hides and animal skins, long flax fiber, and ferrous and nonferrous metal scrap and waste. Contracts for exports of petroleum refining products must be registered with the MOT. Minimum export prices apply to un- rolled pig iron and steel, fiberboard, chipboard, lumber, mushrooms, natural resin, berries, flax fiber, leather, and mineral fertilizer. Mineral fertilizers and waste, and ferrous and nonferrous metals are subject to export quo- tas and licensing requirements, as are exports of textiles to the EU and Turkey and exports of fiberglass to the United States. VAT and excise taxes are collected on goods exported to Georgia, Russia, and Turkmenistan. Under the arrangement of the common customs region with Russia, export customs duties are collected on a list of goods with a low degree of processing that are exported outside the customs union. Most duties are on an ad valorem basis and range from 5% to 30%. Specific and combined duties are also levied. With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona fide expenses related to business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds from services must be repatriated within 90 days, and proceeds from exports of services performed by residents under commission contracts must be repatriated within 180 days. Special MOT approval is required to extend repatriation periods, and special permission from the NBB is required for periods exceeding 180 days. Surrender requirements The surrender requirement is 30%. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities The government and the NBB establish quotas and procedures for clearing the securities of foreign issuers for circulation in Belarus and the quotas and procedures for clearing securi- ties of issuers under the jurisdiction of Belarus for circulation outside Belarus. The domestic placement of stocks and bonds of foreign issuers and foreign placement of stocks and bonds of domestic issuers are permitted, subject to regulations. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases or sales locally by nonresidents require registration with the Securities Commit- tee (SC) under the Council of Ministries (COM) for shares to be exported. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents A permit from the NBB and registration with the BCSE and, when necessary, with the SC are required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 BELARUS Bonds or other debt securities Registration of securities is required. The NBB regulates the issue of certificates of deposit (CDs) and saving certificates by banks. These may be issued both in domestic currency and in foreign exchange. Banks are not allowed to export bank certificates. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is not required for sale. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents An NBB permit is not required. Transfers of CDs to nonresidents are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Controls on the purchase or sale locally by nonresidents are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on purchase or sale locally by nonresidents are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits A permit is required for deferral of receipt of export proceeds. For deferrals of 90 to 180 days, the permit is issued by the MOT; for deferrals of more than 180 days, the permit is issued by the NBB. The same procedures apply to advance payments. By residents to nonresidents An NBB permit is required if the credit is for longer than 180 days. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBB is required for credits longer than 180 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment A permit from the NBB is required. Foreign investments must be registered with the Minsk City Executive Committee; finan- cial institutions must also register them at the NBB. In the case of insurance institutions, foreign investments must also be registered with the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain activities require special approval (license). When establishing an enterprise with foreign investments, the proportion of a foreign investor's share is not restricted, except for insurance organizations and banks, which may not exceed 49%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed fu ll repatriation of their initial investment capital and prof i ts earned in Belarus. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 1 21 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These operations are prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Foreign currency purchases and sales may be performed by jur id ical persons, resident and nonresident individuals, and authorized banks on both the exchange market and the over- the-counter exchange market. Borrowing abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of banking licenses. Maintenance of accounts abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of banking licenses. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Credits may be extended to nonresidents for investment activity. These transactions are permitted for purposes of settlements with nonresidents and of set- tlements with residents who have the appropriate permits; purchases and sales of foreign currency and conversion to another foreign currency for purposes of settlements specified under the lending agreement are permitted. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Effective January 1, 2003, foreign currency deposits are subject to a reserve requirement of 10% (prior to this date, 12%). Effective January 1, 2003, all reserve requirements were un if ied at 10% (Decision of the NBB No. 220 dated November 15, 2002). Effective March 1, 2002, the reserve requirement on rubel and foreign currency deposits of natural persons was 14% (previously, 16% and 12%, respectively). Effective April 1, 2002, the reserve requirement applied to rubel depos- its was reduced to 13%, and effective May 1, 2002, it was fur ther reduced to 12%. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Coordination w i th the NBB is required. In banks by nonresidents Coordination with the NBB is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are established for each type of foreign currency separately and also for aggregate position. Limits are computed as a whole by type of for- eign currency regardless of whether assets ( l iab i l i t ies) belong to a resident or nonresident. Effec t ive June 1, 2002, the fo l low ing limits based on an authorized bank's equ i ty capital have been established on open foreign exchange positions: (1) the overall open foreign exchange position of 20%; (2) the open foreign exchange position of 10% for each type of foreign currency on balance-sheet accounts and off-balance-sheet accounts; and (3) the open foreign exchange position of 10% on forward transactions for each type of foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Controls are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments March 1. Precious metal ingots imported by banks for purposes of banking operations and by juridical persons for purposes of selling to banks were exempted from customs duties and the VAT; also exempted from VAT are sales by ju r id ical persons to banks, transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 BELARUS between banks, and sales by banks to natural persons (Decree of the President of the Re- public of Belarus No. 103 dated February 15, 2002). Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 1. The reserve requirement on rubel deposits of nonresident natural persons was set at 14% (previously, 16%). April I. The reserve requirement for rubel deposits of nonresident and natural persons was reduced to 13% from 14%. May 1. The reserve requirement for rubel deposits of nonresident natural persons was re- duced to 12% from 13%. June 1. The following limits, based on equity capital, were established on open foreign exchange positions of authorized banks: (1) 20% for the overall open foreign exchange position; (2) 10% for each type of foreign currency on balance-sheet accounts and off- balance-sheet accounts; and (3) 10% for each type of foreign currency. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 14. The limit on the amount of foreign currency resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to export without documentary proof of its origin was increased to the equivalent of $10,000 from $1,500. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. All reserve requirements were unified at 10% regardless of types of deposit (NBB Decision No. 220 dated November 15, 2002). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Belgian franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Belgian franc and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro be- came the sole legal tender. Other legal tender The Luxembourg franc also circulated as legal tender through February 28, 2002. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Belgium participates in EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Belgian franc was set at BF 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Belgium applies exchange restrictions against Iraq. Restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers to specially targeted persons in connection with the former Republic of Yugoslavia. Accounts of the Taliban are blocked, as are the accounts of some residents of Myanmar, those of the UNITA movement in Angola and individuals linked thereto, and, effective February 5, 2002, those of terrorist organizations and individuals associated therewith. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs BELGIUM Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These accounts are affected by international security restrictions. The accounts held in the names of several former Yugoslav off ic ia ls are still blocked, as are accounts of the Taliban, accounts of some residents of Myanmar, the UNITA movement in Angola and ind iv idua ls linked thereto, and, effective February 5, 2002, terrorist organizations and individuals asso- ciated therewith and certain off ic ia ls of Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Ind iv idual licenses are required for certain specified imports from some non-EU countries, inc lud ing many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, nontextile products from China, and shoes from Vietnam. All other products are free of license requirements. A li- censing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was reintroduced on January 1 ,2002. Along with other EU countries, the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA, on a number of steel products from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine, and on a number of products from China (ceramics, porcelain, and shoes). Be lg ium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required for only a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for weapons, and for diamonds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 125 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for the acqui- sition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies that do not have the ir principal off ice in Belgium. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These regulations are maintained, but the introduction of the euro has considerably reduced their significance. The EU allows its member countries to maintain such regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Belgian franc could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 BELGIUM Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. February 5. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1373, the accounts of terrorist organizations and individuals associated with them were blocked. February 5. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 310/2002, the accounts of certain offi- cials of Zimbabwe were blocked. January 1. The licensing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was reintroduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. There are two exchange rates: the official exchange rate and the market rate. The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of BZ$1 per US$0.5. The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of CARICOM member countries. Commercial banks are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at the official rate. Effec- tive April 1, 2002, exchange houses are authorized and allowed to deal in foreign exchange. They must purchase foreign exchange at the official rate and sell it at the official exchange rate plus an adjustable service charge to be determined by the CBB; currently, the maxi- mum service charge —inclusive of the 1.2% stamp duty—is 7.5%. Exchange houses must sell 5% of the gross amount of each foreign exchange purchase to the CBB at the official exchange rate. Exchange houses are not allowed to purchase foreign exchange earned by major exports, such as bananas, citrus products, shrimp, and sugar. A stamp duty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents with earnings in foreign exchange may pay their taxes, utility bills, and other expenses in U.S. dollars. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Belize is a member of CARICOM. Belize participates in the CMCF. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 BELIZE Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The CBB is responsible for administering exchange controls, which apply to all countries. Au tho r i ty covering a wide range of transactions is delegated to the commercial banks in the ir capacity as authorized dealers. Only exceptional cases and applications involving substantial amounts are referred directly to the CBB. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for audit and record keeping. No. No. Residents may not hold gold w i thout specific authorization from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported without the approval of the CBB. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZS100. Amoun ts beyond th is l im it require the ap- proval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. The amount of foreign currency that each resident traveler may take abroad is left to the discretion of the commercial banks and is subject to availability and guided by limits. Non- residents may take out up to the amount imported or the limits specified. Each traveler may bring in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened both domestically and abroad. Effec t ive December 5, 2002, commercial banks have the authority to open foreign currency accounts for residents. The CBB reserves the right to prohibit specific accounts. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Banks must obtain permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may stipulate that balances to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 129 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Prepayments for imports require authorization from the CBB; in most cases, such authori- zation is delegated to the commercial banks. The CBB rations its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for payments of a few essential import items, such as fuel and pharmaceuticals. Letters of credit Other Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import li- censes from the M in is try of Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are granted liberally. Customs duties corresponding to the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET range from 5% to 20%, with a number of items (particularly agricultural inputs) entering duty free. Imports by most of the pub l ic sector and certain nonprof it entities, imports of an emergency or hu- manitarian nature, and goods for reexport are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement duties ranging from 5% to 25%. An environmental tax of 1% is levied on a broad range of imports. Specific duties and surcharges apply to certain products. State import monopoly The Belize Marketing Board has an import monopoly on rice, potatoes, onions, and carrots. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six mon ths after the date of shipment, un less otherwise directed by the CBB. The CBB makes direct pur- chases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the traditional practice of purchasing from commercial banks. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for live animals, exc lud ing pets; fish, crustaceans, and mol- lusks, exc lud ing agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus f ru i t s; and sugar. Yes. Transshipments are subject to a 1.5% customs administration fee. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The CBB rations its sale of foreign exchange for invisible payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis. Trade-related payments There are controls on the payment of commissions. Prior approval Investment-related payments For the payment and transfer of commissions, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). Repayments of loans are subject to CBB approval and requ ire a copy of the loan agree- ment, amortization schedule, and proof of the loan disbursement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits BELIZE For interest payments, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For transfer of profits and dividends, an income statement and a declaration of dividends must be presented along with clearance from the CIT. The following limits are in effect: (1) for nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a trip; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of for- eign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign cur- rencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Payments related to medical costs are made directly to a doctor or hospital with original invoices or bills supporting the application. For the transfer of pensions and payments for family maintenance and alimony, CBB ap- proval and CIT clearance are required. Quantitative limits The limit for gifts is BZ$100 a donor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Approval for remittances of wages is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For the transfer of consulting and legal fees, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Indicative limits/bona fide test Similar requirements apply for subscriptions and membership fees for study abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transfers require the approval of the CBB, but controls are administered liberally. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 131 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective September 27, 2002, the Offshore Banking Act was amended to allow an export processing zone (EPZ) developer or an EPZ business, or a commercial free zone (CFZ) developer or a CFZ business to obtain loans or advances up to US$1 million from offshore banks. Loans or advances in excess of this amount require written CBB approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inward direct investment must be registered with the CBB if the profits are to be repatriated in the future. Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. There is a land speculation tax of 5% of the unimproved value of land holdings exceeding 300 acres. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 BELIZE Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The repatriation of gambling proceeds by nonresidents requires clearance from the CIT. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2002 April 1. Exchange houses were authorized and allowed to purchase foreign exchange at the o f f ic ial exchange rate and sell it at the o f f ic ial exchange rate p lus an adjustable service charge to be determined by the CBB (currently, 7.5% inclusive of a stamp duty of 1.2%). December 5. Commercial banks were authorized to open foreign currency accounts for residents, although the CBB reserves the r ight to proh ib it specific accounts. September 27. The Offshore Bank ing Act was amended to allow an export processing zone (EPZ) developer or an EPZ business, or a commercial free zone (CFZ) developer or a CFZ business to obtain loans or advances up to US$1 million from offshore banks. Loans or advances in excess of th is amount requ ire written CBB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMAC members and the Comoros) are mainly made in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be ef- fected freely. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external f inanc ial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of these institutions relate to outward investment, the domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents, and resident accounts abroad. Within the framework of the regional financial market, the placement and soliciting of foreign and domestic securities in Benin require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 BENIN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization of the MOF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency equivalent to CFAF 2 million a per- son. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare them to customs upon entry. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad with the authorization of the MOF, which is granted after obtaining approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Effective Ju ly 1, 2002, commercial banks are authorized to approve requests for opening nonresident accounts in euros. Opening accounts in other currencies requires BCEAO au- thorization. Nonresident accounts are valid for two years. At the end of this period, the beneficiary of the account must submit a request for renewal. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 135 Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the official foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 million. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 million and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 million are subject to prior inspection. Negative list Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% common solidarity fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment due date. Authorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of For- eign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MOF, with the exception of articles with small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and charcoal are banned. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 BENIN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by author- ized intermediary banks. Yes. Yes. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pen- sions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon pres- entation of the appropriate documentation. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Other payments The use of credit cards is allowed only when issued by specialized institutions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions According to exchange regulations within the WAEMU, essentially all capital inflows may take place freely. Capital ou tf lows in the form of repayment of credits, liquidation of in- vestments, and purchases of option contracts may also be carried out freely, but they must be declared to the MOF for information purposes. All investments abroad by residents re- qu i re prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. The granting of credits by residents to non- residents requires documentation for statistical purposes. Prior RCPSFM authorization is required for the issue or sale of securities or real estate by nonresidents as well as for the solicitation and advertisement of investments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents BENIN 137 The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Benin by nonresi- dents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. There are no controls on the sale of secu- rities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a non- resident and a resident, but such sales are subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Beninese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment are subject to a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents are not allowed to purchase abroad new instruments or shares with the aim of delivering these within the framework of a sell option contract. If the execution of a con- tract requires delivery abroad, the sell option must have underlying assets that may be bought locally by residents. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 BENIN Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions: (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the pay- ment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Benin and its parent company abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval by the MOF is required. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made be- fore the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investments abroad by residents are subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the pe- riod agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 139 Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the postal service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents to residents may be granted freely, requiring only a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to these operations require prior MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Larger amounts may be transferred with MOF authorization. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized intermediaries may borrow free ly abroad, but these transactions must be re- ported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are not permitted to hold l iqu id assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to cover current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions may be freely conducted, but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, f inanc ial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange No explicit regulations exist regarding these transactions, but prior authorization by the MOF is required with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases requ ire prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. All overdrafts and advances require prior MOF authorization with BCEAO approval. The regulations governing foreign investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BENIN Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The Insurance Code in effect in Benin includes rules applicable specifically to the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Nonresident accounts July 1. Commercial banks were authorized to approve requests for opening nonresident accounts in euros. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bhutan is the Bhutanese ngu l t rum. The Indian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The ngu l t rum is pegged to the Indian rupee at par. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the p reva i l ing exchange rates of the Ind ian rupee (average rate) against the currencies concerned. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Trade transactions between Bhu tan and Ind ia may be conducted on ly in ngu l t rums or In- dian rupees. Except for payments for du ty-free goods, hand icraft items, and purchases of D ruk Air (Royal Bhutan Airlines) tickets by foreigners, all other expenses in Bhu tan must be paid in local currency. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Yes. Clearing agreements Bhu tan is a member of the ACU. Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The MOF has delegated to the Royal Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty (RMA) the au tho r i ty to release foreign exchange (other than Ind ian rupees) for current transac t ions. The RMA is responsi- ble for imp lemen t ing the surrender requ iremen ts for proceeds from merchand ise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for payments for inv i s ib le transactions. Payments and remittances by residents to nonres iden ts other than in cash and t rave le r 's checks must be channeled th rough au thor ized banks in Bhu tan. On Ap r il 4, 2002, the Bhu tanese au tho r i t ies no t if ied the IMF that bank ing in s t i tu t ions had been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated w i th terrorism, pu r suant to the relevant UN Secur i ty Counc il reso- lu t ions. In addition, the f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are requ ired to report to the RMA any f in an- cial transactions that l ink them to terrorist groups. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 BHUTAN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Imports of gold and s i lver, up to stipulated quantities, by Bhutanese citizens are permitted. Imports beyond th is requ ire special permission from the RMA. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The importation and exportation of cash and securities are subject to declaration of value at the customs point of entry into, and departure from, Bhutan. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign currency notes purchased from authorized banks or declared on entry may be ex- ported free ly. Resident Accounts The fo l low ing categories of persons are permitted to open and maintain dollar-denominated foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Bhutan: (1) diplomatic missions in Bhu tan and th e ir expatriate employees, (2) representative offices of donor agencies and th e ir expatriate employees, (3) th i rd -coun t ry contracting firms and their expatriate employ- ees engaged in execu t ing projects financed by donor agencies, and (4) any person who is a national of a third country and resides in Bhutan. The accounts may be opened, but approval of the RMA is required. Residents of Bhutan are not allowed to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. Bhutanese citizens l iv ing abroad must close foreign exchange accounts upon return and repatriate any balances to Bhutan. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 143 Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Import licenses are governed by Rules and Procedures for Imports of Goods from Third Countries issued by the Department of Trade of the Ministry of Trade and Industries. An import license is required for the importation of capital and intermediate goods from coun- tries other than India. Foreign exchange for all payments related to merchandise imports is automatically made available by authorized banks against import licenses. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports from India are free from tariffs and are subject only to the Bhutanese sales tax. Tax rates range from zero for essential goods to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than India are subject to tariffs. The maximum tariff rate is 30%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alcoholic beverages and spirits (100%). State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Proceeds in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA directly or to authorized banks in Bhutan within 90 days. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at rates ranging from 5% to 20% of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the high- est rate applying to processed products. Prior to August 1, 2002, export taxes were applied to exports of unprocessed timber, apples, oranges, and cardamom. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All invisible payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the RMA. The RMA is charged with setting limits (indicative in most cases) up to which for- eign exchange may be made available for payments for invisible transactions. Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 BHUTAN Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is a travel allowance of the equivalent of $ 1,500 per ticketed passenger per calendar year. In the case of business travel, the foreign exchange cost of an air ticket and country- specific per diem covering accommodation are provided to travelers. There are no time limits, but two weeks is considered the norm. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances for educational fees and tuitions are provided without limits if they are paid directly to universities or institutions abroad. Students may also purchase foreign exchange for a mon th ly stipend of $900 and a onetime settling-in allowance of $1,500 or the equiva- lents. The settling-in allowance and three monthly stipends may be purchased in advance. For medical expenses, subject to referral by a local physician for treatment abroad, foreign exchange may be purchased to cover the cost of treatment and medicine and for living ex- penses abroad. Living expenses vary from country to country, but there are no specific limits for other expenses, and all reasonable expenses are allowed. Yes. A citizen of Bhutan, who under the recommendation of a medical specialist travels to a third country for medical treatment, is permitted to purchase foreign exchange from author- ized banks w i th in the limit prescribed by the RMA for the cost of treatment, medicine, and l iv ing expenses. Any national of a third country who —with the prior approval of the Royal Government of Bhutan —is employed directly by a pub l ic or private organization in Bhutan is permitted to remit his or her salary and savings in foreign exchange through an authorized bank. The RMA may set limits on any or all such remittances as it deems necessary. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds of any receipts or holdings by Bhutanese citizens and compa- nies should be repatriated to Bhutan by transferring such claims and funds to authorized banks in Bhutan. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA or authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 145 Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments All capital transactions must be approved by the RMA. There are controls on all derivative transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment There are controls on all direct investment transactions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Up to the equivalent of $5 m i l l ion (gross) investment is allowed. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 4. The Bhutanese authorities notified the IMF that banking ins t i tu t ions had been in- structed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of individuals, groups, and or- ganizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolu- tions. In addition, the financial institutions are required to report to the RMA any f inanc ial transaction that links them to terrorist groups. Exports and export proceeds August 1. The export tax on unprocessed timber, apples, oranges, and cardamom was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the boliviano. The dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Craw l ing peg The o f f ic ial selling rate is determined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia (CBB) through a competitive mechanism called bolsin. The auctions are conducted by the International Operations Department of the CBB based on the decisions of the Committee for Exchange and Monetary Policy (CEMP). Before each auction, the president of the CBB decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price, below which the CBB will not accept any bids. This floor price, which is expressed in dollars, is the off ic ial exchange rate. The purchasing rate is set as the difference between the official sell- ing rate and a d i f fe ren t ial determined by the CEMP. Economic agents may buy and sell foreign exchange free ly. The private sector may participate in the auctions (with a mini- mum bid of $ 100,000 or its equivalent) through financial institutions that have accounts with the CBB. All pub l ic sector ins t i tu t ions must purchase foreign exchange through the M in i s t ry of Finance at the o f f ic ial se l l ing rate on the day of transaction. The CBB also pur- chases foreign exchange from the private sector and public institutions at a rate that is Bs 0.02 per $1 lower than the o f f ic ial se l l ing rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Bo l iv ia and the other LAIA countries must be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the CBB and the central banks of the countries concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. The MOF, together with the CBB, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign ex- change for debt-service payments. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Gold may be traded freely, subject to the following tax scale in accordance with the gross value of the sale of gold bu l l ion: 7% for o f f ic ial quotations larger than $700 a troy ounce; between 4% and 7% for o f f ic ial quo ta t ions between $400 and $700 a troy ounce, calculated as a 0.01 factor mu l t ip l ied by the off ic ial quotation; and 4% for official quotations of less than $400 a troy ounce. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 147 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit LCs have to be opened at a bank in the Bolivian banking system. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports are controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Bolivia applies an import tariff of 10% on consumer goods. Tariffs of zero and 5% are applied to capital goods in accordance with approved lists. A zero rate is also applied to imports of books and printed materials. Donated food, including wheat, is exempt from the import tar iff. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are subject to a revision process by pub l ic entities. If necessary, however, exporters may contract specialized agencies for verification. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 Export licenses Export taxes BOLIVIA No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on payments for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Pub l ic sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Prof it remittances are subject to a 12.5% tax, which is computed as equiva- lent to the 25% income tax times the presumed net profit of 50% of the amount remitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior au- thorization by the MOF and to control by the CBB. All proceeds of borrowings from for- eign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the CBB. Yes. No. No. No. No. Financial institutions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign cur- rency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the exporting sector with resources from international f inanc ial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. All overseas credits of less than a one-year term are subject to reserve requirements, except for f u l ly matched, short-term liabilities for foreign trade operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 149 D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements A reserve requirement of 2% is applied to time deposits in domestic currency with a ma tur i ty of up to 60 days and to time deposits in foreign currency w i th a maturity of up to 360 days. A l iqu id asset requirement of 10% applies to time deposits in foreign exchange with a ma tur i ty of up to 720 days. Time deposits in foreign exchange with a maturity of more than 720 days and time deposits in domestic currency are not subject to liquid asset requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 80% of the va lue of the banks' net worth m inus their fixed assets. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Yes. Yes. The max imum l im it that pension fund administrators may invest abroad varies between 10% and 50% of the total va lue of the Ind iv idual Capitalization Fund. The specific l im it is decided by the CBB. Pension fund administrators may invest abroad through authorized primary and secondary markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND H E R Z EGO V I NA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article X IV Y e s. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bo sn ia and Herzegov ina is the convertible marka. Euro banknotes and coins also circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Currency board arrangement The convertible marka is pegged to the euro at the rate of KM 1 per €0.51129 (prior to January 1, 2002, the convertible marka was pegged to the deutsche mark at par; the Central Bank L aw was amended on September 5, 2002, to reflect this change). The Central Bank of Bo sn ia and Herzegov ina ( C B B H) no longer publishes ind ica t ive exchange rates for other currencies. The C B BH guarantees unrestricted conve r t ib i l i ty of the convertible marka for deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001); and for euros from January 1, 2002. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market N o. N o. N o. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency N o. N o. There are no foreign exchange controls in place at the state level for transactions in con­ vertible marka. N o. N o. N o. Y e s. There are no l im i ts at the state level on the amount of foreign currency that may be taken across international borders or transferred through bank transactions. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Y e s. H e ld domestically Individuals and exporters may ho ld foreign exchange in accounts w i th commerc ial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 151 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Imports must arrive within 60 days from the date of the advance payment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list No. Yes. There is no off ic ial list of prohibited imports, but the Council of Ministers may establish such a list as circumstances require. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exporters must be authorized to engage in foreign trade. Customs requires that exporters provide documents accompanying the goods; in some cases, documents verifying the origin of the goods are also required. Effec t ive January 1, 2003, approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for exports of military equipment, blood, narcotics and medicines containing narcotics, and other pharmaceutical products. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Fo l low ing an agreement with Germany, the CBBH w i ll provide documentation to Germany on pensions from Germany that are being paid by the commercial banks under German jurisdiction to workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Controls on capital transactions Securities markets participants must be authorized to trade on the organized markets in accordance with laws on securities transactions. Capital Transactions No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents On ly pruden t ial regulations on banks apply. Controls on direct investment Investments must be registered. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 153 Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws The Foreign Exchange En t i ty Law and the Banking Law regulate these transactions. Yes. Yes. No. There are legal controls on stocks, shares, and securities. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement September 5. The Central Bank Law was amended to reflect the replacement of the peg to the deutsche mark with a peg to the euro. Changes During 2003 Exports and export proceeds January 1. Approval from the M in is try of Foreign Trade is required for exports of military equipment, blood, narcotics and medicines containing narcotics, and other pharmaceutical products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana pula. Some external loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990, are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Sharing Scheme (FERSS). Un- der the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4% are borne fu l ly by the borrower, wh i le the next 6% and the following 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government in ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, respectively. Risks associ- ated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15% are borne fully by the government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Under the FERSS, bor- rowers obtain foreign exchange for servicing their external debt at exchange rates that may d iffer from the market rate by more than 2%. No new loans will be issued under this scheme, and the scheme is to be phased out by 2006, once the existing loans are fu l ly re- paid by 2006. The exchange rate of the pu la is determined with reference to a weighted basket of curren- cies comprising the SDR (approximately 30%) and the South African rand (approximately 70%). The central bank deals in four currencies: the dollar, the South African rand, the euro, and the pound sterling. Foreign exchange bureaus are licensed to deal in foreign cur- rencies on a spot basis only. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and the maturity dates of forward exchange contracts/transactions are not restricted. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents are permitted to make payments for goods and services from outside sources using pula-denominated checks, provided that traders outside Botswana are willing to ac- cept the ir collection by banks outside Botswana. Such transactions are subject to supporting documentation for checks in amounts exceeding P 10,000. Botswana is a signatory to various bilateral trade agreements with the fo l low ing countries: Ch ina, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Korea, Malawi, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, the Slovak Republic, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Yes. Yes. Botswana is a member of the SACU, which allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on trade-related payments to or from SACU countries. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 155 Administration of control For practical/operational purposes, several administrative powers of the Bank of Botswana (BOB) have been delegated to commercial banks. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency No. No. There are no restrictions on trading or owning precious metals in commercial forms, such as coins, but there are restrictions on possession of unwrought precious metals, such as bu l l ion. A declaration is required for amounts equal to or in excess of P 10,000 at the time of travel. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they legitimately own, subject to comple- tion of a declaration for any amount equal to or greater than the equivalent of P 10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents and for nonresidents. These accounts facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without requiring conversion of foreign currency re- ceipts into pula and vice versa and protection against fluctuations in exchange rates. Com- mercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for their customers for any amount in any currency at the discretion of banks. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are regulated by customs and excise legislation. Negative list Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 BOTSWANA Import taxes and/or tariffs As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a GET on ly on imports from outside the SACU. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds For the fo l low ing goods, the maximum limits for exports free of payments are bona fide nonmonetary g if ts, P 20,000 a year for a permanent resident; rejected goods, P 100,000 a transaction, subject to provision of documentary evidence; and commercial samples (i.e., goods for exh ib i t ions or other promotional purposes), P 150,000 a transaction. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n .r. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue purposes. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires a permit. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments Authorized dealers may allow remittances of in ter im dividends w i thout reference to the BOB for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange (BSE) and may approve other remittances of dividends/profits w i thout reference to the BOB, subject to satisfactory sup- porting documentation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents No controls are placed on the participation of nonresidents in debt instruments issued in the domestic market, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase central bank bills (BOB certificates), or any money market instrument, the purpose of which is to mop up excess l iqu id i ty in the system. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to issue long-term pula-denominated bonds traded on the BSE, subject to the l is t ing requirements of the exchange. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts are not permitted to purchase the monetary instruments used by the BOB to absorb excess liquidity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad BOTSWANA 157 Dealing in these instruments is subject to prudential foreign exposure limits. No. No. No. n .r. No. A commercial bank's loans to nonresidents is restricted to 25% of the unimpaired capital for each nonresident customer, and, in aggregate, loans to nonresidents may not exceed 800% of a bank's unimpaired capital. These transactions are subject to the listing requirements of the BSE. Prudential limits are set for exposure per currency and for the overall foreign currency risk exposure. For major dealing currencies, the limit is 15% of a bank's unimpaired capital and for others it is 5%. The limit for the overall foreign exchange exposure is 30% of the unim- paired capital of a bank, using the shorthand method. n.r. n .r. n.r. Ins t i tu t ional investors, such as pension funds and l i fe insurance companies, may invest not more than 70% of their assets outside Botswana. This control is imposed by the Registrars of Insurance and Pension and Provident Funds. Currency-matching regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. n .r. Changes During 2002 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1999. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian real. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, tourist agencies, and providers of accommodation for tourists that are authorized to deal in foreign ex- change. Brokers and tourist agencies deal only in banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. Providers of accommodation for tourists may only buy banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. A 5% tax is applied to inflows related to external loans with a minimum coverage maturity of up to 90 days. A 2% tax is applied to remittances related to obligations of credit card administration companies to pay for purchases by their clients. The tax is zero for other foreign exchange transactions. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks are permitted to trade foreign exchange on a forward basis w i th in the statutory limits (bought, sold) of the exchange position; such transactions must be settled within 360 days. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Prescription of currency is required only in foreign exchange transactions related to the LAIA covenant and, prior to June 12, 2002, the Brazil-Hungary agreement. These transac- tions must be made in dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange for pricing or settlement of transactions among residents is prohibited. Payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control E f fec t ive Apr il 22, 2002, all interbank transactions and clearinghouse operations must be effected through the Central Bank of Brazil's (CBB) real-time gross-settlement payments system, using reserve accounts held at the CBB. Prior to June 12, 2002, when this was discontinued, settlements with Hungary were made in dollars every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances were based on those in the international capital market. Brazil is a member of the LAIA. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Repub- lic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and the Republica Bolivariana de Vene- zuela may be made through special central bank accounts w i th in the framework of the mul- tilateral clearing system of the LAIA. The Na t ional Monetary Council (NMC) is responsible for formu la t ing the overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control regulations affec t ing foreign capital and the management of international reserves are under the jur isd ic t ion of the CBB. The Ministry of Planning, Management, and Budget enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. Foreign trade policy is formu- lated by the Foreign Trade Chamber, which consists of the Minister of Development, In- dustry, and Foreign Trade (head); the Minister of the Civil House; the Minister of Finance; the Minister of Budget and Planning; the Minister of Foreign Relations; and the Minister of Agriculture and Supply. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 159 Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formu la t ing guidelines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The MOF coordinates public sector im- port policy. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions imposed on Iraq and the Taliban. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are two separate markets for gold transactions: the financial and commercial markets. Transactions that occur in the financial market are regulated by the CBB. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1% financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied thereon. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade The CBB and authorized institutions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the inter- national market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect to other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or bring in domestic or foreign banknotes, checks, or traveler's checks without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over R$ 10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by authorized foreign exchange dealers; tourist agencies not authorized to deal in foreign exchange; Brazilian citizens living abroad; the Brazilian Post Office Administration; credit card administration companies; companies responsible for the development and execution of projects in the energy sector; and insurance and reinsurance companies and reinsurance brokers. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. These accounts are not regulated. These accounts are not regulated. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be held by embassies, foreign delegations, international organizations, foreign transportation companies, foreign citizens in transit in the country, Brazilian citi- zens l iv ing abroad, and reinsurance companies. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Natural and juridical persons (financial and nonfinancial institutions) may hold these ac- counts. Only resources deposited in nonresident banks or resources that have entered Brazil through foreign currency sales and have not been withdrawn may be repatriated to foreign countries. These resources continue to be available to nonresidents once they are with- drawn, but only in the national currency. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 BRAZIL Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list External f inanc ing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days must be registered in the Financial Operations Registry, an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Department of Foreign Capital and Ex- change (DECEC) w i th in five days. The time to f ina l ize anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Advance deposits are required for imports conducted through the LAIA, except for imports up to the equivalent of US$100,000 from MERCOSUR countries, Bolivia, and Chile. Ef- fective October 23, 2002, the limit for imports from Argentina was increased to the equiva- lent of US$200,000. All importers must be registered in the SECEX Importer and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported by firms and persons and must be registered by the CBB, except for imports by the pub l ic sector (federal, state, and municipal); imports by PETROBRAS (the Brazilian government oil enterprise) and contracting or subcontracting firms engaged in oil explora- tion through risk contracts; imports of medicine by individuals up to the equivalent of US$5,000; imports of samples w i thout commercial value, except for pharmaceutical prod- ucts up to US$1,000; imports of products, except for those prohibited or under special con- trol, by ind iv idua ls for personal consumption; and imports of goods considered as passen- gers' baggage for personal use. The import subsystem of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) allows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an import process directly through the interlinked computers of SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the following three broad catego- ries: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples w i thout commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/IMPORT; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market w i th in 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a l im it on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the pub l ic sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and pub l ic enterprises). Required for imports originating or proceeding from countries under restrictions deter- mined by the UN Security Council and imports of bovines in any form originating or pro- ceeding from the United Kingdom. Drafts or LCs must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate docu- ments by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under LCs must be closed on the date of settlement or two work ing days before the maturity date of the LCs. Federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit for approval by the M in is try of P lann ing, Management, and Budget an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to imports of small amounts. Some imports requ ire prior approval (i.e., an import license) from the DECEX. This ap- proval is usua l ly given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items. As a rule, licenses are valid for 60 days, except for imports of custom-made capital goods. The Secre- tariat of Federal Revenue issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed and customs clearance obtained. The importation of certain products requires approval of the Ministry of Science and Tech- nology. For some products, e l ig ib i l i ty for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equivalent. Most imports are exempt from prior approval requirements. All trade between MERCOSUR partners is liberalized, with the exception of trade in automobiles and sugar. Imports of agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations; weapons; and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, hea l th, morality, or industrial po l icy are proh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open general licenses Licenses with quotas BRAZIL 161 OGLs are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is restricted to their annexes, up to the existing remainder of issued OGLs. In addition to imports under Brazilian concessions covered by the LAI A agreement, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free-trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. In ac- cordance with WTO rules, quotas are imposed on imports of textiles from China, Hong Kong S AR, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China due to their effect on the do- mestic industry. The tariff rate on imports of toys is 25% plus a possible safeguard exten- sion of 15%. For vehicles carrying more than nine persons, the tariff is 65%. For automo- biles, transport vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles, tariffs are 35%, but assemblers established in Brazil may be favored with a special tariff of 17.5%. Other nontariff measures Sanitation and measurement requirements must be observed. Import taxes and/or tariffs The MERCOSUR customs union agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods (including a list of national exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of adjustments designed to bring them into line with the CET within five or six years. Taxes collected through the exchange system Foreign exchange transactions related to imports of goods are exempt from the tax on fi- nancial operations, and foreign exchange transactions related to imports of services have a tariff of zero. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered before 180 days from the shipment date or 20 days after receipt of proceeds, whichever comes f irs t. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Documentation includes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registra- tion. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to exports up to the equivalent of US$10,000. Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for commodities subject to standardization. Export licenses With quotas Exports of wild animals and their hides, hair, feathers, or eggs in any form; jacaranda-da- Bahia wood; ipecacuanha plants; amber and white varieties of honey; and antiques older than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods require prior approval of the SECEX, including those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, reexports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agen- cies. SISCOMEX integrates the activities related to the registration, monitoring, and con- trol of foreign trade operations into a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem al- lows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export proc- ess directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cleft pine woods, mahogany, Brazilian walnut, and virola are subject to quotas. For exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, including sugarcane syrup un- suitable for human consumption, the eligibility for exemption from the export tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quantity exceeding domestic necessity author- ized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism Minister and the MOF. An annual quota is in place for imports under Brazilian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements with the LAIA member countries and for goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free-trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 Export taxes BRAZIL Exports are free from these taxes or are subject to a duty of zero, with the exception of exports of (1) raw hides, which are subject to an export duty of 9%; (2) cigarettes to Latin America, which are subject to an export duty of 150%; and (3) weapons and ammunition to Central America, South America, and the Caribbean, which are taxed at a rate of 150%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers. Trade-related payments For unloading and storage costs there are established rules and surveillance procedures related to operations freely conducted in the commercial market. Regulations on insurance and reinsurance transactions in foreign currency are set by the National Council on Private Insurance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Nonresident capital transactions must be registered electronically at the CBB. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR environment through share custody certificates or directly. The only way to sell other foreign securities in Brazil is through depositary receipts (DRs), which allow the placement of certificates representing these shares in the Brazilian market. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities, money market securities, and collective investment securities through dedicated offshore investment funds (FIEX). Residents may invest only on stock exchanges in MERCOSUR countries. Outside MERCOSUR, Brazilian juridical persons are allowed to purchase DRs issued abroad by companies headquartered in Brazil. Regulations permit employees of firms belonging to foreign economic groups to purchase shares of the main company up to the equivalent of US$20,000 for each employee, for a period of not less than 12 months. In addition to the rules already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock ex- changes by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective investments may be made through Brazilian investment companies and funds. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase bonds or other debt securities through FIEX. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign investors have access to derivative markets. Nonresident financial institutions are allowed to issue swaps in the domestic market, sub- ject to constituting the regulatory capital charge against the counterparty credit risk of such operations if they are not guaranteed by a clearinghouse. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment BRAZIL 163 Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations with financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. Payments and receipts in foreign currency sched- uled or expected to occur in the fu tu re in connection with commercial or financial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Guarantees by nonfmancial juridical persons in credit operations for their foreign subsidiar- ies are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Brazilian nonfmancial enterprises may transfer up to the equivalent of US$5 million, in- cluding all remittances in the previous 12 months. Transfers exceeding the established limit must first be submitted to the CBB before the exchange contract. Exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an entity belonging to the direct or indirect public administration are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Investments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior approval of the CBB's Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy several conditions, especially with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, time in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrow- ing ceilings. Inward direct investment There are legal restrictions on participation in certain economic activities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments require the approval of the CBB. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency, are nu ll and void. Consequently, banks are pro- hibited from granting foreign currency loans within Brazil. However, this regulation does not apply to the onlending of external foreign currency loans. Domestic operations in foreign currencies are prohibited, Yes. Yes. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may hold long positions of up to the equivalent of US$6 million, including all currencies and all of each bank's branches. Amounts exceeding this ceiling have to be deposited with the CBB in dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is un l im i ted, provided that the total amount of combined exposure in gold, assets, and liabilities in foreign exchange do not exceed 30% of each bank's base capital. Banks must increase capital by their open positions over 5% of capital. For licensed dealers (brokerage firms; securities distributors; and credit, financing, and investment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange position is the equivalent of US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 BRAZIL Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their technical reserves in investment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of the ir reserves, together with other investments up to the same ceiling, in shares of open companies, pub- l ic ly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open com- panies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquartered in MERCOSUR countries. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 22. A real-time gross-settlement payments system was established for banks. All interbank transactions are effected through the system using reserve accounts held at the CBB. Imports and import payments October 23. The minimum amount for which advance deposits are required for imports from Argentina was increased to the equivalent of US$200,000 from US$100,000. June 12. The bilateral payments arrangement with Hungary was terminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar also circulates. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The Brunei dollar is issued by the Brunei Currency Board (BCB) only against payments in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of Sin- gapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each other's currency and have agreed to mutual exchange at par and without charge. They have instructed their banks to do the same with their customers. Any excess Brunei or Singapore currency is repatriated regularly, with the issuing institution bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other country's currency. The BCB deals only in Singapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes daily buying and selling rates for electronic trans- fers and sight drafts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quotations for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei Darussalam must apply these rates for transactions with the general public for amounts up to B$ 100,000. Exchange rates for amounts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dollar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in Brunei Darussalam. However, as a result of the CIA, foreign exchange risk may be hedged in terms of Singapore dollars by resorting to facilities available in that country, including foreign currency futures and op- tions traded on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, over-the-counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and the short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Brunei Darussalam is a member of the ASEAN. There are no formal exchange controls, but the MOF retains responsibility for exchange control matters. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Darussalam, and gold dealers and jewelers spe- trade c if ica l ly authorized by the MOF may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 5% duty is levied on the importation of gold jewelry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for environmental, health, safety, security, or reli- gious reasons. Alcoholic beverages may be imported only by nonresident non-Muslims. Some 70% of items (including basic foodstuffs, construction materials, and educational materials) are exempt from customs duties. Most other goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%, 15%, or 20%. The maximum tariff is 200%. In accordance with the CEPT scheme for the AFTA, Brunei Darussalam will eliminate its tariffs on imports from other ASEAN members by 2003, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently ex- cluded from the plan. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 167 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kerosene, rice, salt, and sugar. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are indicative limits/bona fide tests for all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Interest payments are subject to a 20% withholding tax. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM Controls on direct investment Inward d irect inve s tment There are no sectoral controls, but activities re la t ing to national food security and those based on local resources requ ire some degree of local participation. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to na t ional food security and industries that solely export may be f u l ly foreign owned. Jo int ventures are par t icu lar ly encouraged in export- impo rt indus t r ies and ac t iv i t ies suppor t ing such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Pu rchase lo c a l ly by non res iden ts On ly B runei c i t izens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, i n c l u d i ng sites destined for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aqu a cu l tu r e. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of g amb l ing and prize ea rn ings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accoun ts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Provisions spec if ic to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 No s i g n i f i c a nt changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian lev. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement An amendment to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (BNJB) effectively established a currency board arrangement. The deutsche mark was chosen as the peg currency, which has since been replaced with the euro at the rate of lev 1.95583 per €1. The BNB is re- quired to buy and sell on demand, and without restriction, currencies of EU member coun- tries for leva on the basis of spot exchange rates that may not d i f fer from the off ic ial ex- change rate by more than 0.5%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Yes. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Balances remain on clearing accounts maintained under former bilateral arrangements. These arrangements are now inoperative, and the on ly transactions that take place on clear- ing accounts are those that are intended to settle the balances. Valuation and settlement of the balances take place in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are arrangements with Albania, Cambodia, Guinea, the People's Democratic Repub- lic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Romania, and the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable rub le accounts with Cuba, Mongolia, and Roma- nia. The settlement of the debit balance with Romania is under negotiation. Regional arrangements Bulgaria is a member of the CEFTA. Barter agreements and open accounts There are inactive agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Tanzania. Administration of control Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the BNB, the customs administration, and the postal authorities. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 BULGARIA International security restrictions In accordance w i th I MF Execu t ive Boa rd Dec i s ion N o. 144-(52/51) Y e s. Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Four commercial banks that are in bankruptcy have outstanding debt-service arrears. Residents carrying out extracting, processing, or other transactions i n v o l v i ng precious met- als and stones as their business ac t iv i ty are ob l iged to register w i th the M OF w i th in 14 days of starting their activity. These activities are inc luded in the bank ing licenses of commercial banks. Residents carrying out external trade transactions w i th precious metals and stones are ob l iged to register w i th the M OF w i th in 14 days of starting their ac t iv i ty. Na tural persons may export and import freely precious metals and stones for personal use after declaring them to the customs authorities. A ll amounts exceeding personal use are subject to the trade provisions of the Customs L aw. The export and import of precious metals and stones by ma il are prohibited. Th is p roh ib i­ tion does not apply to the B NB and the commerc ial banks. Residents and nonresidents may export domestic or foreign currencies without a declaration if the amount is less than lev 5,000. Exports of amounts between lev 5,001 and lev 20,000 must be declared; nonresidents must also declare the o r ig in of the funds. In the case of ex­ ports exceeding lev 20,000, residents must obtain a permit from the B N B, wh i le nonresi­ dents may export the currency after declaration, prov ided the amount does not exceed the imported and declared sums. In other cases, B NB permission is required. On imports Resident and nonresident natural persons may import un l im i ted amounts of domestic and foreign currency. Amoun ts exceeding lev 5,000 must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Y e s. Resident Accounts H e ld domestically Residents may maintain these accounts in Bu lg a r i a. Balances on these accounts earn inter­ est at international market rates. The crediting and deb i t ing of up to lev 5,000 in foreign currency accounts are not subject to regulations. Transfers abroad may be made on ly by commercial banks after declaring, for statistical purposes, the reason for the transfer. For payments abroad, the declaration must be submitted on the same day; for receipts, w i th in 10 days after the date of the bank statement. In cases where amounts exceed lev 20,000, the transferrer must submit documentation as prescribed in B NB regulations. If the transfer is related to transactions for wh ich B NB registration is needed, the commerc ial bank w i ll verify the registration w i th the B N B. H e ld abroad Y e s. Approval required App rov al is not required, but prior registration w i th the B NB is necessary for a resident to make a payment from Bu lga r ia to a personal account in a nonresident bank. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad App rov al is not required, but prior registration w i th the B NB is necessary for a resident to make a payment from Bu lga r ia to a personal account in a nonresident bank. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Y e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA m Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Y e s. Y e s. Y e s. n.a. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments N o. N o. Y e s. Imports of certain goods —such as dangerous substances w i th ozone-depleting potential; machinery and equipment for air cond i t ion ing using Freon 12; refrigerators, freezers, and other equipment using Freon 11 or 12—are banned for health and security reasons. A registration regime is in effect that applies to natural gas and scrap, in addition to goods prev ious ly covered under nonautomatic l icens ing, such as narcotics, arms, and nuclear weapons. Licenses are required for imports of m i l i ta ry hardware and related technologies, natural gas, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and nuclear materials, pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesticides, unbottled a lcoho l, jewe l ry, rare and precious metals, asbestos, asbes­ tos products, narcotic and psychotropic products, and gamb l ing equipment. There are free trade agreements w i th Tu rkey and the former Yugo s l av Repub l ic of Macedon ia. Import tariffs range from zero to 74% and are calculated on a transaction-value basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. The max imum rate of import tariffs for nonagricul- tural goods is 30% and for agricultural goods it is 74%. Cer ta in products are a l lowed to be imported temporarily without customs duties w i th in specified quantities (active substances for the production of insecticides, fungicides, and herbicides; some agricultural machinery and their spare parts; flour; and l ive breeding animals). Other products w i th no restrictions on quantity are also a l lowed to be imported temporarily without customs duties (equip­ ment; spare parts; information technology products; chemicals for environmental and emis­ sions control; special installations for recovery of poisoned lands; substances, materials, and equipment for replacement of ozone-depleting technologies; equipment, machines, and spare parts used in mines and geological research activities; installations, equipment, and spare parts for production of energy from nontraditional alternative sources; and medical equipment for human and veterinary medicine). The arithmetic mean tar iff for a ll products is 15.2%. The simple unweighted average level of Bu lga r ia 's M FN tariffs is 11.1%. The average tar iff for industrial goods is 10%, and that for agricultural products is 22%. There are 22 tariff bands. State import monopoly N o. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 BULGARIA Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the in te rbank exchange market. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exports of gold, silver, p la t inum, and articles thereof; solutions containing precious metals; electronic scrap and other products con ta in ing precious metals; precious stones; and some var ie t ies of wood must be registered with the M in is try of Trade and Tourism. Letters of credit Export licenses Yes. Special licenses are required for the settlement of outstanding balances of multilateral c lea r ing arrangements. Export licenses are required for exports of m i l i tary hardware and related technologies, endangered flora and fauna, wild plants and animals, livestock, radio- active materials, crafts and antiques, seeds, untreated wood, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted w i th in two working days. There are free trade agreements with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Payments abroad for trade purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. Payments abroad for investment purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. These remittances are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documentary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Other payments Foreign workers' wages may be transferred abroad, provided applicable taxes have been paid. These payments are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documentary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Except in cases specified by the Foreign Exchange Law (e.g., Articles 4(3) and (4)) and its supplementary provisions, prior registration with the BNB is required for transfers related to the fo l low ing transactions between residents and nonresidents: (1) transactions with money market securities issued by nonresidents; capital market securities issued by non- residents; shares in nonres ident companies; and all derivatives from the above-mentioned inves tmen ts; (2) gran t ing of f in an c i al credit between residents and nonresidents; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 173 (3) opening of deposit accounts of residents with nonresident banks; and (4) p rov is ion of collateral by residents to secure obligations between nonresidents or obligations of resi- dents toward nonresidents. Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. On collective investment securities Registration w i th the BNB is requ i red when these are issued by nonres iden ts or purchased abroad by residents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Prior registration w i th the BNB is requ ired when a res ident acquires equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion in a nonresident juridical entity and is eligible to exercise up to 20% of the vo t ing power at a shareholders meeting. Registration is not required for investments in amounts up to lev 20,000. For investments exceeding th is l im i t, the appropriate documen ts must be subm i t ted to a domestic bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions For purchases exceeding lev 20,000, the appropriate documents must be submitted to a domestic bank. Purchase locally by nonresidents Pr ior permission of the MOF is requ i red. Non res iden ts may not pu rchase or own land. If they inherit land, they must dispose of it w i th in a three-year period. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior registration w i th the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out on ly domes- tic transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Prior registration w i th the BNB is requ i red if the bank is licensed to carry out on ly domes- tic transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits Each bank must observe daily (1) a max imum ratio of up to 15% between its open position in any par t icu lar currency and the amount of its own fund s, exc lud ing the euro and the cur- rencies of the EMU countries; and (2) a max imum ratio of up to 30% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own fund s, exc lud ing the euro and the cur- rencies of the EMU countries. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 BULGARIA On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a symmetrical bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU that must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. In addition, banks are allowed to charge an exchange commission of up to 2% on over-the-counter exchange for euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to effect payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bu rk ina Faso is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents must surrender all foreign exchange earned abroad or domestically to an author- ized intermediary bank within eight days of receipt. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions is delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that require prior ap- proval from the MOF or the BCEAO involve residents' investments abroad, domestic ac- counts in foreign exchange, and resident accounts abroad. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect —either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the postal administration, or jud ic ial agents —any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 BURKINA FASO International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Res truc tur ing of arrears to Libya is in progress. Arrears owed to FSU countries were re- structured in 1999. Imports of gold require prior MOF authorization. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manufactured articles containing minor quan t i t ies of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of gold are liberalized. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are off ic ia l ly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposit accounts in local banks. There are no restrictions on the importation by resident or nonresident travelers of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after ob ta in ing authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. These accounts may be held domestically, but prior approval is required. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonres iden ts are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 177 Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All import transactions from outside of the CFA franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be effected through an authorized bank. An inspection of goods for ve r i f ica t ion of qua l i ty and prices is requ ired for all imports val- ued at more than CFAF 3 m i l l ion. All imports valued at CFAF 3 m i l l ion or more are subject to inspection for ver if ica t ion of quality and value. Import licenses were e l im ina ted and replaced w i th preimport dec lara t ions issued for all import operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and above. Imports of asbestos, fireworks or explosives toys for entertainment purposes, f i sh ing nets with a mesh smaller than 3 cm2, and ivo ry are restricted. A technical import visa (certificat de conformite) is requ ired for the fo l low ing products: reinforcing steel; sheet metal; adhesives for cold vu lcan iza t ion (d isso lu t ion); carb ide; elec- trical batteries; polyethylene and polypropylene bags for packing; mopeds; motorcycles hav ing an eng ine capacity of less than 125 cm3; tires and inn er tubes for cycles; aerosol insecticides; coils for mosquitoes; pesticides; bleach; cosme t ic p roduc ts and pe r fume; gas cylinders; pharmaceutical alcohol; butter and margarine; cooking salt; ed ib le vegetable oils; food pastes; granulated sugar or sugar cubes; mayonnaise; mustard; seasoning cubes and flavoring; vinegar; wheat and cereal f lou r; yeast and add i t ives for bread mak ing; canned food; cookies; rice; beer; liquor; m i lk; tea and coffee; sodas; wine; and cigarettes and to- bacco of any kind. The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a statistical tax of 1% and a communal so l ida r i ty levy of 1%. A temporary pro- tection tax of 15% (in certain cases 7.5%) may be levied on products upon the authorization of the WAEMU commission, if the effective protection rate has declined by more than 50%. All imports from ou ts ide the ECOWAS are subject to a communal so l ida r i ty levy of 1%, and imports of certain goods that are also locally produced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 5% to 30% (prior to January 1, 2002, the lower rate was reduced from 10%). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU coun tr ies are exc luded from the repatriation requ iremen t. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on wh ich payments fa ll due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such fore ign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer th rough the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 BURKINA FASO Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes All export transactions of more than CFAF 5 million, except those between WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to special authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical du ty of 3%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Transfers not exceeding CFAF 300,000 do not require supporting documents. Residents are required to pay through a licensed intermediary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for the depreciation of direct investments require the approval of the MOF, since depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide tests for the transfer of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion in foreign banknotes must be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Payments for medical costs and studies abroad are granted upon submission of supporting documentation to authorized banks. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. All proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be surrendered to an authorized dealer within one month of the due date. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 300,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must originate from borrowing abroad. Authorization is not required to buy securities issued in WAEMU member states under RCPSFM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 179 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. The issuance and sale of securities in Burkina Faso must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign securities by residents and the transfer abroad of funds for this purpose are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent in Burkina Faso, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase free ly commodity and security call and put options abroad. There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on which payment falls due is not more than 120 days after the date of shipment. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose is subject to prior MOF authorization. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered, as well as the payment due date. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the BCEAO acting on behalf of the MOF and substantiated by documentation. There are no controls on these credits, but they must be reported for statistical purposes. The necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized agent. There are no controls on repayments of loans, provided that the authorized agent handling the settlement is furnished with documentation attesting to the validity of the transaction. The regulations governing financial credits apply. All investment abroad by residents is subject to prior MOF authorization. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. Authorization is not required for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 BURKINA FASO Inward direct investment Inward investments must be reported for statistical purposes. purchases of foreign securities whose issuance or offering for sale in WAEMU member countries has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions The l iqu ida t ion of investments abroad must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Reinvestment of the proceeds from the liquidation is subject to prior MOF authorization. If reinvestment is not authorized, the proceeds from the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Burkina Faso is unrestricted but must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Investments abroad by residents require prior authorization from the MOF. The investor must make the request in writing and designate the authorized intermediary that will exe- cute the payment. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by de- posit to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, it cannot be executed un t il after the period agreed to by the parties. Loans The regulations governing securities and investments apply. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In general, inheritances and dowries are authorized; endowments require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have acquired resident status must obtain prior approval from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets These transfers are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The regulations governing lending to nonresidents apply. Borrowing abroad Authorized agents are free to borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are authorized to open accounts with their correspondent banks for settling transactions for their own account or the account of their customers. However, banks are not authorized to hold amounts in these accounts that exceed their current requirements. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations involve commercial credits. Prior authorization from the MOF is required for financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are no regulations that apply specifically to these transactions. However, prior MOF approval is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no distinction between resident deposit accounts, nonresident deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regu la t ions The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios. Open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 181 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The protection tax rate of 10% was reduced to 5%. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Burundi is the Burundi franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Under a foreign exchange auction system, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (BRB) sells foreign exchange weekly to authorized dealers. At the end of each weekly session, a market exchange rate is obtained, and this rate serves as its reference rate for determining the buy- ing and selling exchange rates. On March 21, 2002, the ceiling on bid rates for purchases of foreign exchange from the BRB was eliminated. Effective January 2, 2003, the floor rates are not announced. Banks are required to use foreign exchange awarded at auction sessions within 15 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. n.r. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements with these countries are effected through a clearing process, with balances paid in convertible currencies. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guesthouse in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling convertible currencies or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the BRB and in the case of nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the aus- pices of the CEPGL. All payments for goods and services in Burundi must be made in domestic currency, Transactions in Burundi among residents must be conducted in domestic currency, There are trade agreements with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. These agreements are not fu l ly operational due to the unfavorable economic situation. Regional agreements exist with Eastern and Southern African countries. Clearing agreements exist w i th members of COMES A and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the BRB; author- ity to carry out some transactions is delegated to authorized banks. International security restrictions No. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 183 Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Natural and juridical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the ministers responsi- trade ble for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold in transit or mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Controls on external trade Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates in effect at the time of declaration. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the mining and customs departments. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. A license is required for anyone not holding a foreign exchange account. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in addition to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The regulation pertaining to foreign exchange bureaus and foreign exchange accounts au- thorizes resident natural persons or legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited freely. Withdrawals of Burundi francs are unlimited. An airline ticket or other travel document is required for withdrawals of foreign exchange in the form of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks up to the equiva- lent of $5,000 an operation. Supporting documentation is required for transactions involv- ing payments for imports of goods and services, withdrawals of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks in excess of the equivalent of $5,000. Foreign exchange accounts may bear interest. Held domestically Authorized banks may open foreign exchange accounts, but must forward copies of the relevant documents to the BRB. Held abroad Prior BRB authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Any nonresident natural or juridical person may open a foreign exchange account in an authorized bank. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts may be debited and credited freely. These accounts may bear interest. Amounts of less than or equal to $5,000 may be withdrawn in banknotes on presentation of travel documentation. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 BURUNDI Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist E f fec t ive January 2, 2003, Import and Payment Declarations (DIPs) must be validated by commercial banks in accordance w i th the General Regu la t ion on Exchange Control, and sha ll apply to all products except those proh ib i ted by law or by international agreements to which Bu rundi is a party. BRB approval is required for any exemptions. Consignments of imports of food, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and used c lo th ing exceeding the equ iva lent of $3,000 c.i.f. in value and of all other goods exceeding $5,000 c.i.f. in va lue may, in pr inc ip le, be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quan- tity, and price by international supervising and oversight agents on behalf of the Burundi authorities. Currently, the inspection is carried out by two organizations —the Societe Ge- nerale de Surveillance and Baltic Control. Both organizations also determine the dutiable value of the imports subject to inspection. There is no obligation to settle import transactions by LCs, since other payment methods are also permitted. Exchange licenses are issued on the basis of DIPs. All goods imported in to Bu rundi must be insu red by approved Bu rundi insurers, and pre- m iums must be paid in Bu rundi francs. Importers do not need licenses but must file a DIP. Imports of commercial samples, per- sonal luggage, and effects of travelers, as we ll as all imports by d ip loma t ic and UN mis- sions are exempt from f i l i ng a DIP. For imports of goods exceeding the equ iva lent of $500,000 in value, an in te rna t ional call for b ids is required before the va l ida t ion of the DIP. Pr ior to August 28, 2002, when it was abolished, a list of products eligible for foreign ex- change, drawn up in agreement w i th the World Bank and the BRB, was in effect. The im- port of products not on the l ist was, however, authorized. The d is t inc t ion was in terms of the type of f inanc ing, because products e l ig ib le for foreign exchange were f inanced by foreign exchange acquired on the market, wh i le imports of other products were f inanced by the commercial banks' own holdings. Negative l ist Imports of 100% cotton pr in ted cloth (pagne) are forb idden. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Burundi is a member of COMESA. There are five customs du ty bands (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMESA. Imports of petroleum products are subject to duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, which replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of imports, in addition to any appli- cable customs du t ies and fiscal duties. A flat rate prof i ts tax of 4% is applied to all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be collected w i th in 30 days of the date of export declaration at cus- toms for shipment by air or w i th in 90 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collec- tion of proceeds from exports of nontraditional products are set by the commercial bank carrying out the operation. Surrender requirements Effec t ive January 3, 2003, the surrender requirement ratio for proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton was reduced to 70% from 100%. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A va l ida t ion of the export declaration by a commercial bank is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes BURUNDI 185 Yes. Yes. Certain goods must be declared, but licenses are not required. Taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally applicable rate is 5%. For green cof- fee, the rate is set each crop season. The export tax on all other types of coffee is 31%, but it has not been levied since 1999. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments All payments for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to administer payments for invisible transactions. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a domestic insurer. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading and storage costs are limited to amounts indicated by the invoice. Investment-related payments Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the profits distributed to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100% of their earnings after deduction of local expenses. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for maintenance ex- penses). Transfers of income from rents, sales of real estate, and transfers of profits and dividends have been suspended. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on payments of interest. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks and the BRB grant foreign exchange for personal and business travel, respectively. Yes. Limits based on a daily allowance and the number of travel days apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks grant foreign exchange for personal payments within the limits of their ava i lab le foreign exchange. Pension transfers are effected through the Social Security Institute. Yes. An allowance the equivalent of $2,000 is granted on departure, and additional transfers are authorized on presentation of invoices. Allowances for studies abroad are authorized on the basis of proof of enro l lmen t. Yes. Yes. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals res id ing and working in Bu rundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70% of their net annual income (80% in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50% of their production). Indicative limits/bona fide test A work contract is required. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Quantitative limits Consu l t ing and legal fees are limited to amounts indicated by invoices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 BURUNDI Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds may be kept in a foreign exchange account in a domestic bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require individual authorization. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be made with nonresidents' own foreign exchange funds. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents BRB authorization is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents BRB approval is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The provision of foreign exchange for outward direct investments is suspended. Even with the emergence of the free foreign exchange market, banks are not authorized to sell foreign exchange for outward direct investments. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital for which repatriation guarantees have been granted do not require individual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents BRB approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. BURUNDI 187 Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The transfer of proceeds from the sale of real estate is suspended unless the purchaser is the holder of an adequately funded foreign exchange account. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not specifically regulated if they are effected in domestic currency. To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions These transactions are not specifically regulated if they are effected in domestic currency, Borrowing abroad BRB approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Only commercial banks may maintain accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted on foreign exchange accounts. Prior approval of the BRB is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement March 21. The ceiling on bid rates for purchases of foreign exchange from the BRB was eliminated. Imports and import payments August 28. The positive list of imports eligible for BRB foreign exchange was eliminated. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 2. The floor rate would no longer be announced. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 2. Import and Payment Declarations (DIPs) are to be validated by authorized commercial banks in accordance with the General Regulation on Exchange Control and shall apply to all products except those prohibited by legislation or by international agree- ments to which Burundi is a party. January 3. The surrender requirement ratio for proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton was reduced to 70% from 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 2002. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian r ie l. The do l lar c ircu la tes f ree ly and is used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the off ic ial rate and the market rate. Ad- jus tmen ts to the o f f ic ial exchange rate are made da i ly by the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) to l im it the spread between the o f f ic ial and para l lel market rates to less than 1%. The o f f ic ial exchange rate applies m a in ly to external transactions conducted by the gov- ernment and state-owned enterprises, and is used by banks for recording transactions in foreign currency. The NBC quotes daily o f f ic ial rates, wh i le commercial banks are free to buy and sell for- eign exchange at the ir own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. For- eign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests with the NBC. The NBC is authorized to l icense commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regu la te current and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. On February 19, 2002, Cambodia no t i f ied the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze any transfers of capital and assets of certain ind iv idua ls and to freeze funds and other f inan- cial assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Counc il Resolu- tions 1267 and 1373, respectively. Yes. No. Yes. The import or export of raw gold is subject to prior dec lara t ion to the NBC if the va lue of each transaction equals or exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 189 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports The export of means of payment exceeding $10,000 in foreign exchange or its equivalent in domestic currency by a traveler must be declared to customs officers at border crossings of Cambodia. Exports of fore ign currency are subject to prior notification to the NBC. On imports The regulations pertaining to exports of banknotes apply. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically There are no limits on the balances of these accounts, and the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations. All transac t ions may be settled in foreign currency. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts There are no laws p roh ib i t ing these accounts. Blocked accounts Accounts belonging to persons and/or organizations known to be associated with terrorist activities are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be f ree ly contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Au thor ized intermediaries may be requ ired by the NBC to submit proof of payment of im- ports by banker's order in support of their applications to purchase foreign exchange, and later may also be required to provide various documentary evidence confirming the entry of goods into the country. When the collection is made, the proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account w i th the domiciled bank in accordance with the existing law. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of vo lume, qua l i ty, and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of na t ional security, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import duties and excise taxes are levied on selected imports. Imported goods are also sub- ject to a VAT. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 CAMBODIA Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be transacted through authorized domiciled banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Export proceeds must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank in accor- dance with the existing law. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed timber and logs. Exports of garments, gems, and rice to the United States and all exports of sawed timber are subject to quotas. Exports of antiques and several categories of logs are restricted. An export tax of 10% of the estimated market value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to trade and investments are not restricted, but they must be effected through authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The proceeds from exports of services must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank, in accordance with existing laws. Surrender requirements Only proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no securities markets in Cambodia, and there are no specific laws on capital mar- ket securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized banks. There are no specific laws regarding approval, and capital transfers relating to investment abroad are not restricted. However, transactions involving the equivalent of $100,000 or more require prior declaration to the NBC. Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for Development of Cambodia, but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 191 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign direct investment taking place in accordance with the provisions of the investment law of Cambodia may be transferred freely. However, such transfers have to be made through authorized intermediaries, which must report to the NBC all amounts equal to or exceeding $100,000 or its equivalent. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Transfer of assets These transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks must provide the NBC with periodic statements of transfers or settle- ments and of outflows and inflows of capital carried out between Cambodia and the rest of the world. Any export of foreign currency banknotes by authorized intermediaries is subject to prior declaration to the NBC. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. However, in the event of foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be implemented for a maxi- mum period of three months, imposing certain temporary restrictions on the activity of authorized intermediaries, particularly on certain transactions specified in the law, their foreign exchange position, or any loans in domestic currency extended to nonresidents. Banks may lend to nonresidents conducting business within Cambodia. Banks are required to maintain at all times a maximum ratio of 20% between their overall exposure resulting from their operations with each individual beneficiary and their net worth. Yes. Yes. Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long position in any single foreign currency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of their net worth. Resi- dents and nonresidents are treated the same. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no institutional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 2002 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement January 1. Cambodia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 19. Cambodia notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze any trans- fers of capital and assets of certain individuals and to freeze funds and other financial assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at this rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also set o f f ic ia l ly on the basis of the fixed rate for the euro and the rates for the other currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Commercial banks collect commissions at a rate they each set freely. However, such commissions are not levied on government exchange transactions, transfers in settlement of imports covered by an import declaration domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments of loans properly obtained, and travel allow- ances or representation expenses paid for o f f ic ial missions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market n.r. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Cameroon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other countries are u sua l ly made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that l inks all Operations Account countries. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Ex- change regulations of CAEMC member countries are harmonized. Clearing agreements There are c lear ing arrangements in the framework of the CEEAC. Administration of control International security restrictions Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the M in is try of Finance (MF), which delegates its authority to authorized intermediaries. There are no such restrictions under the legislation in force. However, in practice, decisions are taken in accordance w i th the reso lu t ions of the in te rna t ional commun i ty (e.g., IMF, UN). Payments arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. Approval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy (MM WE) is required to hold gold in any other form, and it is normally granted on ly to industrial users, inc lud ing jewelers. Newly mined 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 193 gold must be declared to the MMWE, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users. Exports of gold are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization of the MMWE and MF although such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of all coins and banknotes are subject to a prior declaration to an authorized inter- mediary for statistical purposes. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; reexportation above th is ceiling requires documentation showing either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or a withdrawal from a deposit account maintained at a local bank. Resident travelers are authorized to import into Cameroon a max imum of CFAF 300,000 to cover their initial expenses upon their return to Cameroon. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks, with prior approval of the MF and BEAC. Held domestically Approval required Yes. The opening of foreign exchange accounts exclusively for use by enterprises in the strategic sector (e.g., petroleum) that are also allowed to ma in ta in their accounts in foreign currency is subject to the prior authorization of the MF. Held abroad The open ing and maintenance of accounts abroad are prohibited, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on these accounts. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Since the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c ircu la t ing outside of its zone of issue, any such banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFA francs. Nonres iden ts are allowed to maintain bank accounts in euros. These accounts, held mainly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and their nonresident employees, may be credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign currencies transferred f rom abroad by account owners, (2) transfers from other nonresident euro accounts, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 CAMEROON (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies, (2) transfers to other nonresident euro accounts, and (3) payments to residents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonresi- dents may not maintain accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Convertible into foreign currency Accounts may be credited and debited only with foreign currency. Approval required Prior authorization of the MF is not required. Authorized intermediaries are free to open domestic currency accounts for any nonresident. Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Import payments must be made in accordance with the terms of the underlying contracts. However, advance payments (i.e., before the actual delivery of goods) are authorized up to 50% of the value of imports. There are no restrictions on import financing. The amounts to be transferred must corre- spond to those contained in the relevant import declaration. Up to 50% of prefinancing is authorized; the balance is authorized only upon presentation of the relevant trade documents. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted if stipulated by underlying contracts. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions for domestic consumption must be reported for statistical purposes and those valued at more than CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with a licensed bank. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Preshipment inspection All imports are subject to inspection by the Societe generale de surveillance (SGS). Letters of credit LCs are allowed but are optional. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses have been almost totally abolished. Importers of more than CFAF 5 million are required to fill out an import declaration with the SGS. The importing of certain prod- ucts, which are included in a list established each year by the Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development (MINDIC), remains subject to licensing. A list of products that are still subject to authorization is published annually by the MINDIC in the Programme generale des echanges (Overall Trade Program). Certain imports are prohibited for ecological, health, or safety reasons. These licenses are required mainly for long-term supply contracts. Quotas are applicable to imports by container. Import tariffs range from 5% to 30%. Import surcharges apply only to imports from coun- tries outside the UDEAC. Taxes collected through the exchange system Surcharges apply only to imports from countries outside the UDEAC and to imports of maize meal and cement. State import monopoly There is a state import monopoly only for imports relating to sovereign expenditure (such as defense and security). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 195 Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from the repatriation re- quirement. However, waivers may be granted by the president of the Republic to compa- nies of a strategic nature and that represent the national interest. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of their repatriation, Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation No. For exports of fresh food products (vegetables, fruits), a health certificate is required before shipment. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Export transactions valued at CFAF 5 million or more must be domiciled with a licensed bank. Preshipment inspection Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for all exports valued at the equivalent of CFAF 5 million or more. Export licenses are issued by the MF. Yes. Export taxes established in the Budget Law are collected by the Directorate of Customs. An export tax of 17.5% is applied to processed timber, and a rate of 12.5% is applied to the semiprocessed timber. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles bound for any country must be reported for statistical purposes to an authorized intermediary and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade are subject to the same requirement as basic trade transac- tions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. There are no restrictions on the transfer of amounts necessary for the payment of all other trade-related expenses. The payment of these expenses is authorized upon presentation of invoices and related documents when the latter are not taken into account in the basic commercial contract. Yes. Yes. Distributed profits, dividends, and other interest paid by residents to nonresidents may be transferred. Yes. Transfers are authorized on the basis of conventions, contracts, minutes of general meetings (as regards profits and dividends), and loan repayment schedules (as regards interest). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the acquisition of foreign currency by residents traveling to countries other than CAEMC member countries. The limit on foreign exchange allowances for travelers is the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a trip. The number of trips allowed is not limited. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them within 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 CAMEROON Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners working in Cameroon may transfer a portion of their remuneration upon presen- tation of their pay slip and their most recent income tax return. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of the supporting documents provided. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of supporting documents provided. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within one month of the due date. Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered w i th in one month of co l lec t ion. Re turn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them w i th in the following eight-day period. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital transactions between Cameroon and CAEMC member coun tr ies are free of ex- change control. Outward capital transfers to all other coun tr ies are not controlled, subject to legal enforcement against drug-related f inanc ing, procuring, and any other misconduct. However, foreign borrowing; foreign direct inves tmen t; and the issu ing, advertising, or marketing of foreign securities may be subject to special control measures. Inward capital transfers are not controlled, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Transactions are permitted; however, those valued at more than CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be reported to the MF. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The issu ing, advertising, or marke t ing of foreign secur i t ies in Cameroon valued at more than CFAF 10 m i l l i on requ i res prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in i s t ry of Finance and Budget (MOFB). All foreign securities and debt instruments must be lodged with an authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 197 intermediary and are deemed to be foreign assets, whether they belong to residents or non- residents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Transactions in money market instruments valued at more than CFAF 10 million require authorization from the MF. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior MF authorization is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 million. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MF is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MF is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 m i l l ion. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior declaration to the MF is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 million. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon, of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MOFB whenever the va lue of the transaction exceeds CFAF 100 m i l l ion. However, the fo l low ing exceptions to prior authorization apply: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad because prior approval has been obtained, and (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part. Borrowing abroad up to CFAF 100 m i l l ion by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, must be reported to the MF w i th in 30 days of each transaction. All other loans f rom nonresidents must be reported 30 days before they are contracted to the MF and the central bank. Loans contracted by public and quasipublic enterprises, as well as all government-backed foreign loans are subject to prior MF authorization. Transaction valued at more than CFAF 100 million must be reported to the MF and to the BEAC. To residents from nonresidents Prior declaration to the MF is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 CAMEROON Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Direct investments abroad and foreign investments in Cameroon (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon); banks are authorized to examine and then execute transactions valued at up to CFAF 100 million. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon needs only be reported to the MF unless the operation involves the relinquishing of an equity holding previously reported as direct investment in Cameroon. Controls on real estate transactions Reporting to the MF is required for all these transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans For loans, except for those representing an authorized investment, and those relating di- rectly to the provision of services, banks are authorized solely to examine and then execute the following transactions that are not subject to the authorization: (1) loans granted by resident licensed banks; and (2) other loans valued at up to CFAF 100 million. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies The authorization of the MF is not required for transfers related to these operations. They are, however, subject to reporting for statistical purposes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Banks are authorized to execute these operations. However, they are required to report this to the MOFB. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Correspondent accounts are permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Only deposits in convertible CFA francs are permitted for nonresidents, Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities may intervene in the foreign exchange market to promote orderly movements in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are determined freely in the exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Canada is a member of the NAFTA. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada maintains certain restrictions on the transfer, remittance, or assignation of money, checks, bank deposits, and other financial instruments held by, on behalf of, or in an ac- count of the government of Serbia and Montenegro. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, Canada imposes restrictions on finan- cial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina and a freeze on disputed property situated in Canada, inc lud ing the assets of all the successor states of the former Republic of Yugosla- via. Furthermore, a freeze is imposed on the assets of five former Yugoslav government off ic ia ls indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries, except the United States, require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and do not require a license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld dome s t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fo re ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures N eg a t ive l i st Open general l icenses Licenses w i th quo tas O ther n o n t a r i ff measures CANADA Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and Serbia and Montenegro are frozen, pursuant to r e so lu t ions of the UN Secur i ty Counc i l. A l though the sanctions against Libya have been suspended by the UN Secur i ty Counc i l, Canadian regu la t ions remain in effect. Transactions allowed by m in is ter ial certificates are conducted on a routine basis. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Impo rt perm i ts are requ i red for the impor ta t ion of certain agricultural products, certain t e x t i le produc ts and c lo th ing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, na tu ral gas, ma ter ial and equ ipm ent for the produc t ion or use of atomic energy, certain m i l i ta ry arma- men ts, and certain in t e rn a t ion a l ly con tro l led drugs. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the impor ta t ion of unregistered drugs. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited, except from the United States. The p roh ib i t ion on imports of used veh ic les f rom Mexico w i ll be phased out by January 1, 2019. Yes. Imports of some c lo th ing and certain tex t i le products, u su a l ly in the form of bilateral re- straint agreements concluded under the MFA, are also subject to quantitative restrictions. In accordance w i th the p rov is ions of the U ruguay Round Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Canada 's system of import con tro ls on tex t i les and c lo th ing is be ing liberalized in stages over a 10-year period that began on Janua ry 1, 1995. As a resu lt of the commitments made und er the U r u g u ay Round Agreemen t, Canada replaced a ll agr icu l tural import restrictions w i th ta r i ff rate quo tas to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round (or und er the NAFTA). Measures cons is tent w i th in te rna t ional trade ob l iga t ions (e.g., coun te rva i l ing duties) are in e f fec t. A n t i d um p i ng du t i es are imposed, tak ing in to consideration competition policy fac- tors as we ll as o ther economic costs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 201 Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Certain monopolies exist at the federal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement inter- governmental arrangements, to maintain supplies, or to ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Dual Use List, and the Inter- national Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons to ensure the orderly export marketing of certain products that are subject to import limita- tions by other countries; to promote fu r ther processing in Canada (e.g., of logs and herring roe); and for nonproliferation purposes (i.e., chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, Angola and Myanmar are on the Area Control List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States, as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List, unless otherwise exempted. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tions, transportation, financial, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provision of the Investment Canada Act (ICA), new foreign investments are generally subject to noti- fication requ iremen ts but not to review requirements. Except in sensitive sectors, where the non-Canadian investor or vendor is u l t ima te ly subject to the legislation of a WTO country other than Canada, only direct acquisitions of control of a Canadian business that has assets equal to or greater than Can$223 m i l l ion (for 2003) are subject to review. (This amount is adjusted annua l ly to reflect economic growth in Canada.) The acquisition of control of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 CANADA a Canadian enterprise is considered direct investment when it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation carrying on business in Canada. It is considered indirect investment when it involves the transfer of control by share acquisition of a non-Canadian corporation that controls a Canadian corporation carrying on business in Canada. These provisions were multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round. Different thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in culturally sensitive sectors. Canada applies a "net benefit" test to determine whether a proposed investment will provide economic benefits domestically. Where the non- Canadian investor and vendor are ultimately subject to the legislation of a non-WTO country, the direct acquisition of control of a Canadian business that has assets greater than Can$5 million or the indirect acquisition of control of a Canadian business with assets greater than Can$50 million (or Can$5 million if 50% or more of the total assets of the business acquired is located in Canada), is subject to review. The acquisition of a Canadian business involved in cultural industries, financial services, transportation services, or uranium production is subject to a limit of Can$5 million regard- less of the nationality of the investor or vendor. Acquisitions in cultural industries may be subject to review, if the government so decides. The complete list of cultural activities is contained in schedule IV of the ICA. Investments that are generally subject to review are allowed if they are likely to be of net benefit to Canada. Cases that are subject to review must be resolved within 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer period of time. In practice, most cases are resolved within 45 days. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents There are no controls; however, withholding taxes apply. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Banks are limited in the type of entities they may invest in domestically or abroad when the investment leads to the ownership of more than 10% of the voting rights of all shares out- standing, to the ownership of more than 25% of shareholders' equity, or to control of the entity. No controls are placed on the ownership of banks that specifically preclude nonresident ownership. Although the shares of large banks must remain widely held, new legislation allows fit and proper investors to own up to 20% of voting shares or 30% of any class of nonvoting shares, provided that no single shareholder or group of shareholders controls the bank. (Previously, there was a general prohibition on any person, resident, or nonresident, directly owning more than 10% of all outstanding shares of any class of shares of a large bank or bank holding company.) Any person, including nonresidents, may set up or acquire a smaller bank, subject to ministerial approval. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to the euro at the rate of CVEsc 110.27 per €1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange with the general public are conducted by four commer- cial banks: Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA), Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV), Banco Totta e A9ores, and Banco Interatlantico. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. There are agreements with Cuba, under which Cape Verde is a net creditor. There are agreements with Angola, which are currently under negotiation. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV), the central bank. Current account transactions, investments in securities, and foreign bor- rowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberalized. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are external arrears to Russia and Spain, for which rescheduling negotiations are under way. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require prior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is permitted up to a limit of CVEsc 20,000 a person a trip. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 CAPE VERDE Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Res iden ts t rave l ing abroad may take out the equ iv a l ent of CVEsc 1 m i l l ion (approximately $10,000). The impo r ta t ion of domestic cu r rency is permitted up to specified l im i ts. Foreign travelers may import foreign currency up to specified l im i ts. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res iden ts are permitted to open foreign currency accoun ts at commercial banks authorized to deal in fore ign exchange. The operation of these accounts is free, but must fo l low BCV regu la t ions. He ld dome s t ica l ly Held abroad These accoun ts are permitted, but pr ior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. n .a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accoun ts may be opened and operated as demand or term deposit accounts. Term deposit accoun ts may be ma in ta ined for no more than one year. Approval is requ ired to open these accounts. Nonres iden ts may open nonremunerated demand deposit accounts in local currency. The operation of these accounts is free, but must fo l low BCV regulations. Conve r t ib le in to fo re ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods exceeding CVEsc 100,000 and not invo lv ing payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to a preregistration requirement. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses, wh ich are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, requ ire the endorsement of the BCV and are generally va l id for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Licenses are, in general, granted l ibe ra l ly for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development- related equipment. Imports with a value of less than CVEsc 100,000 are exempt from the l icens ing requ iremen t. Pos i t ive l i st Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs A ta r i ff pro tec t ion scheme is in effect, p rov id ing tariff protection in the order of 50% for certain domes t ica l ly produced sensitive goods. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 205 Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months, but th is period may be extended. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchases in excess of the equ iva lent of CVEsc 1 m i l l i on in fore ign cu r rency a person a t r ip are subject to the subm iss ion of appropr ia te suppor t ive documents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfers by fore ign techn ical assistance pe rsonnel wo rk ing in Cape Verde are au tho r ized w i th in the limits specified in the ind iv idual contracts. These contracts, as well as other con- tracts invo lv ing foreign exchange expend i tures, are subject to prior screen ing by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib les must be repatriated in conve r t ib le currencies. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 CAPE VERDE Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward capital transactions, except those for investments in securities and foreign borrow- ing and lending in connection with current account transactions, must be approved in ad- vance by the BCV. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted; however, they must be effected through the stock market or authorized dealers. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations n.r. n.r. Yes. n.r. These instruments do not exist. Foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberal- ized. However, these transactions are subject to verification by the BCV. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. All direct investments requ ire a permit (Certificado de Investidor Externo) and must be registered with the BCV. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 207 Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad These accounts may be freely opened and operated. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions, Reserve requirements Accounts in foreign exchange constitute the assessment base. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of the Central A f r ican Repub l ic is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5%, exc lud ing VAT, is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury and for the expenses of students. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, as allowed by the fixed peg with the euro, exporters and importers may cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Central A f r ican Repub l ic is l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count coun tr ies. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regula- t ions of member coun tr ies in the CAEMC are harmonized. All draft leg is la t ion, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the f inances of the state requ ire the prior approval of the Ministry for the Econ- omy, Finance, P lann ing, and International Cooperation (MEFPIC). The Debt Directorate of the MEFPIC supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same m in i s t ry supervises (1) lend ing abroad; (2) the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and (3) inward and outward di- rect inves tmen t. Exchange control is administered by the MEFPIC, which has delegated some approval au tho r i ty to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, g ran t ing of exceptional travel a l loca t ions in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the repatriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal Admini- stration. All exchange transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made th rough the BEAC. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 209 n.a. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized pu rcha s ing off ice. Exempt f rom pr ior au tho r iza t ion are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and license-free imports of gold are subject to customs dec la ra t ion. Certain companies have been o f f ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CAEMC coun try to another. Exports of banknotes outside the CAEMC zone are prohibited. All resident travelers, regardless of des t ina t ion, must declare in w r i t ing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the amount declared at the time of entry; the reexportation of foreign bank- notes above th is ce i l ing requ i res documen ta t ion demons tra t ing e i ther th e ir impor ta t ion or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonres ident deposits held in local banks. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from another CAEMC coun try. Imports of banknotes from outside the CAEMC zone are proh ib i ted. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n .a. n.a. n .a. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to non res ident accoun ts are based on regu la t ions applied in France. The pr inc ipal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in euros. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside the territories of its member coun tr ies, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Blocked accounts n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required for coffee, cotton, and diamonds. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import declarations are required for all imports, and the import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submit- ted to the authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. Other nontariff measures Taxes and duties on sugar imports must be paid in advance. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CAEMC GET applies. There are four rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inputs, 20% for intermediates, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra- CAEMC tariff is 20% of the GET. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 30 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered w i th in one month of collection. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection for coffee is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a declaration. Yes. An export tax is applied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 211 Investment-related payments Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted freely when the underlying transaction has Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits been approved. Y e s. Y e s. Residents traveling to other countries of the franc and euro areas may obtain an unlimited allocation in euros. W i t h in the B E AC zone, B E AC banknotes may be exported without l im i t. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the f o l­ low ing l im i ts: (1) for tourist travel, C F AF 4 m i l l i on a trip; and (2) for business travel, C F AF 10 m i l l i on a trip. A ll resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing a ll means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required to prove that such means of payment have been purchased w i th funds drawn from a foreign account in C FA francs or w i th other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test B o na fide requests for allowances in excess of the l im i ts are no rma l ly granted. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits App rov al may be required for these transactions, except in the case of payments for studies abroad. The allowance for travel to countries outside the franc zone for med ical treatment or educa­ tional purposes is C F AF 5 m i l l i o n. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers of pensions and payments for medical expenses, studies abroad, alimony, and fam i ly maintenance are a l lowed upon presentation of supporting documentation. Fo re ign workers' wages Prior approval Y e s. Quantitative limits Cred it card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Fore ign nationals wo rk ing in the C A E MC are a l lowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, prov ided that the transfers take place w i th in three months of the pay period concerned. Y e s. The use of credit cards, wh i ch must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap­ proved by the M E F P I C, is l im i ted to the ce i l ings set for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of l im i ts are no rma l ly granted. Other payments Prior approval P r ior approval is required for payments of consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Mon a co, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. Proceeds of more than C F AF 5 m i l l i on that are received from residents of other countries in respect of services, and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in one month of the due date. A ll proceeds over C F AF 5 m i l l i on for services and income earned in those countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Capital transfers between the Central A f r ican Republic, France, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control, provided that they are not related to activities proh ib i ted under CAEMC regu la t ions. Capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval and are restricted, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted f ree ly. The issu ing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic requ ires p r ior au thor iza t ion from the MEFPIC. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the govern- men t; and (2) shares s im i lar to securities, when the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic has prev ious ly been authorized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lend ing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of jur id ical persons in the Cen- tral Afr ican R epub l ic whose registered off ice is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt f rom th is authorization are (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 mil- l ion for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the opera t ion. Foreign borrowing by the government or its pub l ic and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrow ing w i th a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Di- rector of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of ju- r id ical persons in the Central A f r ican Republic whose registered office is abroad requires prior au thor iza t ion from the MEFPIC. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans consti- tu t ing a direct investment abroad for wh ich prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f irms men t ioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between the Central A f r ican Repub l ic and countries abroad, or between foreign countries in which those persons or f i rms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l i on for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be reported to the Off ice of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the opera- t ion, un less the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 213 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Direct investments of over CFAF 100 m i l l ion abroad, including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Re- pub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central Afr i- can Repub l ic, requ i re the prior approval of the MEFP IC w i th in 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments must be declared to the MEFPIC within 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MEFPIC may request a postponement of up to two months from receipt of the declaration. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of investments requires prior approval from the MEFPIC, unless the opera- t ion invo lves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved. Controls on real estate transactions n .a. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate and are free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies con- cerned. All transfers and exchange operations are subject to a commission levied by the treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25% in the CFA franc zone and 0.5% (exclud- ing VAT) outside the CFA franc zone. No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the MOF. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Chad is an Operations Account country; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The exchange regulations of CAEMC member countries are harmonized. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF, but it has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instruc- tions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through authorized banks. The MOF supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency CHAD 215 Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the MOF and the Directorate of Geological and Mining Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities; and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BE AC to areas outside that of the BE AC is prohibited. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an unlimited amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in euros. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the ex- change allocation depends on the type of travel and may be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of Operations Account countries. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the BEAC may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 CHAD Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to countries outside the BEAC area must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of su l fur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with four tariff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodi- ties at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Ac- count country must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions related to foreign countries and exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, nonresi- dents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than a year), are not permitted to send payments to countries that are not CFA franc ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 217 zone members w i thout prior authorization from the relevant authorities. They may, how- ever, rece ive payments f rom abroad. A simple declaration is required for transfers to coun- tr ies outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior au thor iza t ion must be obtained f rom the relevant au tho r i- ties. For many types of payment, approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks, wh ich are required to execute promptly all du ly documented transfer orders and to dispatch cable transfers w i th in 48 hou rs of receipt of the relevant request. Insurance on all imports with f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. Yes. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Travelers —civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc. —must use the following payment instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in euros. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA f ranc zone, the exchange allocation is subject to prior authorization from the re levant administrative authorities. Residents trave l ing outside the CFA franc zone for tourism, sporting events, participation in expositions, organization of fairs, participation in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a max imum of CFAF 4 m i l l ion a person a tr ip for those over 10 years of age; for ch i ld ren under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents trav- e l ing to coun tr ies ou ts ide the CFA franc zone for bus iness may obtain an exchange alloca- t ion equ iva lent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a max imum of CFAF 10 m i l l ion a trip. C iv il servants and government employees traveling on o f f ic ial business to countries outside the CFA f ranc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tourists, but only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a l im it of CFAF 4 m i l l ion. For amounts exceeding these limits, higher exchange allocation is subject to the presentation of suppor t ing documents. Yes. Yes. For countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation for medical costs is equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a limit of CFAF 5 million. For studies abroad, the exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is equivalent to a three-month scholarship plus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion. H igher exchange allocations are subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 CHAD Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Additional special controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; inward and outward direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign secu- rities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad or in the CAEMC for amounts exceeding CFA 10 million requires prior authorization from the MOF. If au- thorization is granted, the transactions carry a state guarantee. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents CHAD 219 Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the financing of commercial transactions either be- tween Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total outstanding amount of these loans does not exceed CF AF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) borrowing constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) borrowing directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) types of borrowing other than those mentioned above when the total outstanding amount of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the ma- turity is two years or less. Borrowing referred to under (3) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF. Inward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. Loan transactions between residents and nonresidents exceeding CFAF 5 million require prior MOF authorization. By residents to nonresidents Loans granted by resident natural persons to nonresidents require central bank authorization and notification to the MOF 30 days before the loan is to be transacted. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 CHAD Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Authorized banks may free ly borrow from abroad. These transactions, however, must be declared to the MOF and the BE AC 30 days in advance. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 27, 1977. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. There are two foreign exchange markets, the formal and informal markets. The exchange rate prevailing in the two markets is the same, and agents may purchase or sell foreign ex- change in either market, except that capital transactions must be conducted through the formal foreign exchange market, which consists of commercial banks and other entities licensed by the Central Bank of Chile (CBC). The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. The CBC may intervene in the market in exceptional circumstances. No. No. Transactions in the forward exchange market are not restricted, but Chilean residents must inform the CBC. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Settlements between Ch i le and the other LAIA coun tr ies are made through accounts main- tained under the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Exchange market regulations and their administration are the responsibility of the CBC. No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Only authorized dealers may trade monetary gold, but ordinary transactions in gold be- trade tween private individuals are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unrestricted, subject to normal export and import formalities. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 Held domestically Held abroad CHILE Juridical persons may hold foreign currency checking accounts, but they must take into account legal restrictions on investments, based on their commercial activities (i.e., pension fund administrators). In the case of checking accounts, commercial banks must certify the account holder's domicile. Juridical persons subject to regulations on investment abroad (i.e., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Nonresident Accounts The opening and holding of checking accounts are subject to domicile requirements. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Effective March 1, 2002, import payments exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 must be reported to the CBC. Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural and juridical persons may engage in import activities. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of used motor vehicles are restricted. Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a price band system. Since 1999, the 10% uniform tariff has been reduced by 1 percentage point a year until it reached 6% in 2003. Effective January 1, 2002, imports were subject to a uniform 7% tariff rate with a few exceptions (including items imported from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). On January 1, 2003, this rate was further lowered to 6%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Effective March 1, 2002, the use of proceeds from exports exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 must be reported to the CBC. Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 223 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All transactions exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 must be reported to the CBC. Investment-related payments Transactions must be conducted through the banking system and reported to the CBC. Credit card use abroad The CBC authorizes commercial banks to issue credit cards. Card users must pay balances due for purchases abroad with their own resources. However, under the concept of extraor- dinary expenditures, an individual may acquire foreign exchange from banks without de- claring the purpose. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transactions in the domestic market exceeding US$10,000 or its equivalent must be conducted through the banking system (the formal foreign exchange market) and reported to the CBC. Capital transactions taking place abroad need only to be reported. Nonresidents may purchase securities freely. To benefit from special taxation (under De- cree-Law 600), nonresidents may invest through foreign investment funds (FICE), which are formed by foreign capital and administered by a stock firm established in Chile. These are subject to prudential regulations, including a five-year minimum holding period, and to a profit tax of 10%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may sell shares and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may issue equities and bonds abroad, and the associated foreign exchange opera- tions must be effected through the banking system. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Through the Bolsa offshore mechanism, a nonresident may sell bonds and other instru- ments from abroad. Nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. To operate in the domestic financial market, the company must be registered. Funds entering Chile through the FICE are subject to a minimum holding period of five years. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Sale or issue abroad by residents In practice, Chilean mutual funds (open funds) and investment funds (closed funds) are not offered abroad directly. To operate abroad, however, these funds must meet the existing regulations of the foreign country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 CHILE Controls on derivatives and other instruments Banks and th ird parties may trade forward contracts with foreign counterparts involving Chilean currency (either the peso or the inflation-indexed Unidad de Fomento —UF). Banks may hedge credit risk associated with the ir f ixed- income portfolio and commercial loans with residents, us ing credit derivatives, for both local and foreign currency. Purchase locally by nonresidents These operations are permitted on ly through the bank ing system. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners must establish residence in order to sell or issue derivatives loca l ly. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Pension funds and insurance companies are not allowed to engage in international trade lend ing. Commercial credits may be contracted with foreign banks and f in an c i al en t i t ies, subject to a tax of 4% on interest if loans are provided by a f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion, or a tax of 35% if the creditor is not a f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion. Operations by in su rance companies, pension fund s, and in s t i tu t ion al inves tors are subject to prudential regulations. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Banks are not required to obtain prior authorization from the CBC to issue guarantees on external credits received by domestic enterprises, financial credits, the issuance of docu- ments abroad, or forward contracts with authorized agents abroad but must inform the CBC. Foreigners may invest f ree ly in Chile. Investments over the equ iva lent of US$1 m i l l ion may be made under Decree-Law 600 and represent a contract w i th the government. In th is case, the investor may choose between the general income tax law and the guaranteed profit tax rate of 42% for 10 years. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments made under Decree-Law 600 must be he ld in Chile for at least one year to be e l ig ib le for repatriation. Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents Repatriation of proceeds is not subject to control, but proof of the sale is required. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may engage in the fo l low ing: borrowing funds from the pub l ic th rough time deposits and savings; gran t ing mortgage loans and syndicated loans to residents; pu rcha s ing bonds issued abroad by residents; and i s su ing deposits, bonds, and promissory notes abroad that may be traded domes t ica l ly or abroad. Some of these opera- t ions may take place between local and foreign banks. Banks are also authorized to trade and issue derivatives in currencies, based on exchange rate and interest rates, and on com- mercial credits us ing forwards, fu tu res, and swaps, and to acqu ire options and credit derivatives. Nonbank f i n a n c i al ins t i tu t ions are not allowed to ma in ta in accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign time deposits w i th in the margin for financial investment abroad. External cur- rent accounts are not controlled. Banks are allowed to deal in debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Banks satisfying a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10% may acqu ire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Banks are allowed to invest a m ax imum of 40% of the ir Tier II capital in companies or banks in a given country, and they are authorized to extend ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 225 commercial loans to natural and juridical persons resident abroad for purposes of financing foreign trade operations between third countries. Chilean banks are authorized to provide guarantees, operations, or financing to foreign financial institutions, provided that operations relate to the financing of international trade between third countries. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may grant loans or purchase securities denominated or expressed in foreign ex- change, provided they remain within the open position limits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are statutory ceilings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate of the previous month. Foreign financial investments by commercial banks are subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Banks are allowed to issue CDs and bonds abroad. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of Tier II capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot instruments, foreign investment, and assets and liabilities issued abroad or denominated in foreign exchange. Financial institutions are allowed to compute excess foreign exchange flows to calculate their mismatch in local currency. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investments by institutional investors are subject to prudential regulations. Effective January 3, 2002, pension funds could invest up to 20% of their resources (previ- ously 16%) abroad, and investment in variable income securities of any one issuer could not exceed 13% (previously 10%) of the resources (this limit was increased to 15% on June 1, 2002, and abolished on September 1, 2002). Effective August 1, 2002, there are five types of pension funds —A, B, C, D, and E (previously, two). The maximum amount that each type may invest in foreign currency without hedging against risk was 37%, 22%, 18%, 13%, and 9% of total resources, respectively. Effective January 1, 2003, each type A, B, C, and D pension funds may invest up to 1 % of its assets in FICE, and its investments may not exceed 1% of the FICE's assets in aggregate. Effective January 1, 2003, insurance compa- nies may invest abroad up to 20% of their technical reserves and risk-adjusted capital. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January I. The tariff rate was reduced to 7% from 8%. Exports and export proceeds March 1. The use of export proceeds over US$10,000 needs to be reported to the CBC. March I. Import payments over the equivalent of US$10,000 need to be reported to the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 CHILE Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors January 3. The maximum amount that pension funds may invest in foreign instruments was increased to 20% from 16% of their resources, and the maximum investment in variable income securities of any one issuer may not exceed 13% (previously 10%). June 1. The limit on investments in variable income securities was increased to 15%. August 1. The number of types of pension funds was increased to f ive types—A, B, C, D, and E— from two. The maximum amounts that each type may invest in foreign currency without hedging against risk were set at 37%, 22%, 18%, 13%, and 9% of total resources, respectively. September L The 15% limit on investments in variable income securities was abolished. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January L The tariff rate was reduced to 6% from 7%. Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors January L Type A, B, C, and D pension funds were allowed to invest up to 1% of their assets in FICE, and their investment may not exceed 1% of the FICE's assets. January L All insurance companies were allowed to invest abroad up to 20% of their tech- nical reserves and risk-adjusted capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Chinese renminbi. The currency unit is the yuan. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the renminbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a basic rate for the renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar, the U.S. dollar, and the yen, based on the weighted average exchange rate that prevailed in foreign exchange transactions on the previous day. In the interbank foreign exchange market, daily changes in the value of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar are limited to 0.3% on either side of the basic rate, as announced by the PBC. The daily movement of the renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar and the yen is limited to 1% on either side of the basic rate (daily movements beyond this limit must be reported). The U.S. dollar spot exchange bid-offer rate between designated foreign exchange banks and their customers may not exceed 0.17% of the basic rate and those for Hong Kong dol- lars, yen, and euros may not exceed 1% of the basic rate. Banks may set limits on the fluc- tuations of other currencies on their own, but the bid-offer spread may not exceed 0.5%. The selling rate for cash and the spot exchange rate must be the same for all currencies. The spot buying rate for Hong Kong dollars, Macau patacas, and U.S. dollars may not exceed 0.75% of the mid-rate for the spot exchange bid-offer rate, and the spot buying rate for euros and yen must not exceed 1% of the mid-rate for the spot exchange bid-offer rate. The cash-buying rate for other currencies may not exceed 2.5% of the mid-rate for the spot exchange bid-offer rate. No. No. Effective December 1, 2002, forward exchange operations by the Industrial and Commer- cial Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of China, and China Construction Bank are allowed with respect to current transactions, repayment of foreign exchange loans obtained abroad and registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and other foreign exchange receipts and payments approved by the SAFE with a maximum maturity of 365 days. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. Use of foreign exchange among residents . The use of foreign exchange for pricing or settlement of transactions among residents is prohibited. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The SAFE is responsible for foreign exchange administration, under the direction of the PBC. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On Ap r il 1, 2002, the Chinese authorities no t if ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed ind iv idu a l s, groups, and organ iza t ions associated w i th terror- ism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Gold is subject to a system of centralized purchase and d is tr ibu t ion. M in ing companies must sell the ir gold to the PBC, and companies that use gold must buy it from the PBC. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Approval is requ i red for enterprises to produce, process, or engage in the production, proc- trade essing, sale, or resale of gold products. Possession of gold or silver by ind iv idua ls is subject to state controls. No organ iza t ion or ind iv idu al may appraise or use gold or silver. Pr iva te trading is prohibited. Controls on external trade Imports of gold require PBC approval. Gold may be imported by ind iv idua ls for reasonable personal use only. Exports are subject to quota controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic currency is l im i ted to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take their personal, legitimate foreign currencies abroad, as follows: (1) except in special cases, residents may take foreign currencies in cash form up to US$10,000 or its equ iva lent abroad; (2) amoun ts exceeding US$10,000 may be taken abroad in the form of traveler's checks or other payment certificates; (3) residents tak ing foreign currencies up to US$2,000 abroad do not need to apply for a License for Carrying Foreign Currencies Abroad (LCFCA). For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$4,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required, and for amounts of more than US$4,000, the au then t ic i ty of the transac t ion must be ver if ied by the SAFE af ter an LCFCA has been obtained; and (4) nonresidents taking foreign currencies up to US$5,000 abroad do not need an LCFCA, but for amoun ts of more than US$5,000 but less than US$10,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required, and for amounts of more than US$10,000, the au then t ic i ty of the transaction must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been obtained. Residents and nonresidents may import up to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents importing more than the equivalents of US$2,000 and US$5,000, respectively, must declare the amoun ts to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted All domestic and foreign-funded enterprises approved by the governmental department concerned and that have management rights in a foreign company, or hav ing foreign ex- change earnings from current transactions, may open current foreign exchange accounts with the authorization of the SAFE. Foreign exchange funds in these accounts may be used for current account or capital payments with the approval of the SAFE. Specified capital foreign exchange accounts may be used for capital account receipts. Natural persons may open foreign currency savings accoun ts with authorized banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 229 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Agencies r equ i r ing foreign exchange may convert domestic currency in to foreign currency at authorized banks by presen t ing valid proof and commercial documents when external payments are made. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts s tay ing in Ch ina for a short t ime may open foreign currency savings accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements For advance payments, importers must present to the bank an import contract and other re levant documen ts regard ing the se t t lement of payment obligations, inc lud ing invoices and letters of guarantee. Advance import deposits The regu la t ions gove rn ing advance payment requ i remen ts apply. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Documentary evidence ( inc lud ing import contracts, verification forms, customs declara- tions, invoices, and sh ipp ing documents) is required for importers to purchase foreign ex- change or to make payments f rom a fore ign exchange account. If the imported product is subject to quota or other controls, an import permit must also be provided. If the product is subject to au toma t ic r eg i s t r a t ion, a completed automatic registration license must also be provided. To engage in fo re ign trade, all en terpr ises must ob ta in approval from the Foreign Trade Adm in is tra t ion and register w i th the Adm in is tra t ions for Industry and Commerce. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narco t ic drugs, foods tuffs, medicines, ani- mals, and p lan ts that are inconsistent with Chinese regulations are restricted or prohibited. In addition, the importation of the fo l low ing items is prohibited: weapons; ammunition and explosives; manusc r ip ts; pr in ted and recorded materials; and f i lms that are deemed to be de tr imen tal to Chinese po l i t i c a l, economic, cu l tu ra l, and moral interests. Yes. Yes. An agreement is in effect for ag r icu l tu ral cooperation w i th the Un i ted States, wh ich sets resolutions on the qua ran t ine of wheat, c i t rus f ru i t, and meat between the two countries. There are four categories of import ta r i f fs: the MFN tar iff rate, the treaty tariff rate, the preferential ta r i ff rate, and the ord inary ta r i ff rate. The MFN rate applies to imports from WTO member coun t r ies or f rom coun t r ies or reg ions that have established an MFN agree- ment w i th Ch ina. The treaty ta r i ff rate app l ies to imports from parties that have concluded a reg ional t rade agreement w i th a p r e f e r en t i al ta r i ff c lause. The p re fe ren t ial ta r i ff rate ap- plies to imports from coun t r ies or regions that have signed a special preferential tariff agreement w i th Ch ina. The o rd ina ry ta r i ff rate applies to all other imports. The fo l low ing p roduc ts are subject to state trad ing: wheat, maize, rice, crude and refined oil, vegetable o i l, cotton, and tobacco and tobacco products. Imports of acrylic fibers, natu- ral rubbe r, plywood, steel products, and wool are subject to designated trading. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Effective October 15, 2002, all enterprises authorized to conduct current account transac- tions may retain foreign exchange equivalent to 20% of their current account foreign ex- change earnings in the previous year, except for special purpose transactions, such as dona- tions and international postal remittances, for which there is no limit on the amount that may be retained; the remaining amounts must be surrendered to authorized banks. Prior to October 15, 2002, the following regulations were in effect: Qualifying domestic-funded enterprises (DFEs) could retain foreign exchange equivalent to 25% of their annual cumu- lative export earnings in foreign exchange or of their cumulative total foreign exchange expenditures, whichever was less. Since December 1, 2001, qualifying enterprises have been defined as (1) those that have annual export foreign exchange earnings in excess of the equivalent of US$2 m i l l ion and foreign exchange expenditures in excess of US$200,000; (2) foreign trading companies whose annual export-import volume exceeds US$30 m i l l ion, whose capital exceeds Y 10 million, whose export foreign exchange receipt rates are at least 95%, and whose document presentation rates are at least 80%; and (3) production-type enterprises authorized to engage in export-import operations whose annual export-import volume and capital exceed US$10 million and Y 30 million, respec- tively. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs) could retain their export earnings, provided these earnings did not exceed the maximum amount allowed for a foreign exchange account as prescribed by the SAFE; otherwise, the balance, if any, must be sold to authorized banks. The purchases and sales of foreign exchange by FFEs have been included under the bank- ing surrender system. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The verification formalities for the foreign exchange export income of enterprises have been simplified, allowing enterprises to handle these formalities on a monthly basis. Also, a system of recording differences for future reference is in effect. Enterprises must follow cancellation procedures in a prompt fashion, including the recovery of foreign exchange. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Products are allocated by means of quotas through a bidding system. In 2002, 25 products were allocated. Export duties are levied on 36 products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Nontrade payments by FFEs and DFEs are subject to the same provisions. Resident indi- viduals are subject to different regulations. The payment of commissions for export business is allowed in accordance with the export contracts and the commission contracts. For contracts with an unwritten commission ex- ceeding 2% of the contract amount and a stated commission exceeding 5% of the amount and commissions exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000, prior approval of the SAFE is required. All commissions under these limits may be settled directly through a bank. Proof of transaction is required for all trade-related payments. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits for commissions. Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel The foreign exchange requirements of companies within their budgets are provided accord- ing to the limits prescribed by the MOF. There are no restrictions on payments for travel of FFE staff, whereas the amount of foreign exchange that may be bought by other corpora- tions must be declared in accordance with MOF standards. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prior approval Quantitative limits PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 231 For residents traveling abroad as members of a tour group, overseas group fees may be contracted and remitted abroad by touring agencies but cash needs are to be purchased by the individuals. Verification and approval of the SAFE are required for amounts exceeding the specified limits. Residents traveling to Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR for personal reasons may purchase up to the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign currencies at authorized banks; residents travel- ing to other countries or regions (including Taiwan Province of China) may purchase up to US$2,000 in foreign currencies. For amounts exceeding these limits, SAFE verification is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$1,000 for payments of medicines and medical equipment abroad; for larger amounts, they must submit appro- priate documentation to the SAFE for verification. Persons paying for their own studies abroad (college level or higher) are allowed a one-time purchase of foreign exchange of up to US$20,000. Larger amounts require SAFE verification. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of earnings and tax clearance are required. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test For transfers in payment of subscriptions and membership fees, a proof of transaction is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign grants and financial aid received by domestic establishments, and foreign exchange earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts, may be maintained with the approval of the SAFE. Foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of in- ternational organizations, affiliates of foreign juridical persons, resident persons, and for- eign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange. Corporate enterprises may retain foreign exchange earnings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the maximum limit allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to au- thorized banks. The purchase and sale of foreign exchange by corporate enterprises are included in the banking surrender system. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective December 1, 2002, qualified foreign institutional investors (QFIIs) are allowed to invest domestically in A shares, subject to the following restrictions: (1) a QFII must have minimum experience in the industry (5 years for fund manager; 30 years for insurance companies) and the equivalent of at least US$10 billion in assets under management in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA latest f inanc ial year and must be clear of any major irregularities in its home market over the past three years; (2) a QFII that is a bank must have assets that rank it among the top 100 in terna t iona l ly in the latest f inanc ial year; (3) a QFII that is an insurance or a securities company must have m i n im um paid-up capital of the equ iva lent of US$1 b i l l ion; and (4) ownership of any Chinese company listed on the Shanghai or Shenzhen stock exchange by a QFII may not exceed 10%, and the total shares owned by QFIIs in a single Chinese company may not exceed 20%. QFIIs must set up special renminbi accounts with domestic banks and use the services of domestic securities companies. Closed-end QFIIs may only remit capital after three years, in installments of no more than 20% of the total each time, at intervals of one month or more. Other QFIIs may on ly remit capital after one year, in in- stallments of no more than 20% of the total, and at intervals of three months or longer. The face value of B shares is denominated in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. These shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and may be bought by foreign and domestic investors. Domestic investors may purchase B shares with new or existing foreign currency deposits. Prior to December 1, 2002, nonresidents could purchase B shares only. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents These transactions are l im i ted to B shares. Pu rchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Overseas listed domestic companies may repurchase the shares of their company that were issued abroad w i th prior approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), SAFE ver if ica t ion of the source of the funds, and approval from the SAFE for remittance abroad. Effec t ive September 1, 2002, prior approval by the CSRC is required for overseas listed domestic companies (OLDCs) and China-held foreign listed companies (CHFLCs; i.e., companies registered and listed abroad and controlled by Chinese shareholders) to sell shares abroad. Proceeds of OLDCs must be repatriated within 30 days and either kept in the OLDCs' foreign exchange accounts or converted into renminbi (with SAFE approval). These proceeds may be retained abroad on ly w i th SAFE approval. A f ter deducting any related charges, foreign exchange funds earned by the domestic equity ho ld ing u n i ts of OLDCs and CHFLCs through sales of listed shares assets or l iqu id i ty of the company must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of arrival. After repatriation, the foreign exchange must be settled in accordance with SAFE guidelines. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts These transac t ions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Banks authorized by the PBC may purchase foreign bonds but must use their own foreign exchange funds and are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Fo l low ing au tho r iza t ion by the State Development P l ann ing Commission, applications for these transactions are submitted by the SAFE to the State Council for Examination for ap- proval. Foreign exchange earnings f rom bond f lo ta t ion must be repatriated. On money market ins t rumen ts The regu la t ions governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Pu rchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts These t ransac t ions are not allowed. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Only f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions that are approved by the PBC and carry out foreign exchange trading operations for the ir own account or on behalf of customers may purchase and sell derivative ins trumen ts w i thout prior SAFE approval. The purpose of such purchases or sales may be for hedging of risk only. Speculative trading is not permitted. Non fmanc ial ins t i tu t ions may engage in such activities through f inanc ial institutions as part of approved operations w i thout prior approval. Prior SAFE approval must be obtained if these transac- tions are required to be made with foreign institutions. Trading may be done directly with foreign in s t i tu t ions for derivatives transactions under the provisions of the debt of FFEs ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 233 without approval; however, debt provision modification procedures and the corresponding external debt mod i f ica t ion reg is t ra t ion formalities must be completed after the fact. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regu la t ions gove rn ing purchases apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents The SAFE has l i f ted the restrictions on purchases of foreign exchange for advance repay- ments of foreign exchange loans, foreign debt, and loans converted from foreign debt. Pur- chases of fore ign exchange to make advance repayments of loans requ ire SAFE authoriza- tion. Purchases of fore ign exchange to make advance repayments of loans must conform to the fo l low ing guidelines: (1) debt exam ina t ion, approval, and registration requirements must be sa t isf ied in accordance w i th regu la t ion s; (2) the loan contract must contain an ad- vance repayment clause and both the creditor and the debtor must agree to the advance repayment; (3) the debtor must submit an app l ica t ion to purchase foreign exchange for an advance loan repaymen t; and (4) owned fore ign exchange must be used first, and foreign exchange may be purchased on ly when all owned foreign exchange is exhausted. F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions au thor ized by the PBC may lend to overseas institutions or contract overseas cred i ts. Medium- and long-term in terna t ional commercial borrowing by Chinese institutions must be incorporated in the state plan for the use of foreign capital, undergo transaction-based exam ina t ion, and receive SAFE approval. F inanc ial in s t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing may conduct short-term foreign borrowing with maturities of one year or less w i th in the balance approved by the SAFE. Specific transaction-based approval is not requ i red. A ll fo re ign bo r row ing mu st be reg is tered w i th the SAFE. Forward LCs w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than one year are included in the category of short- term credits, wh i le those exceeding one year are included in medium- and long-term inter- na t ional commerc ial loans. FFEs may borrow f rom non re s iden ts w i t h o ut ob ta in ing approval but must register the bor- rowing w i th the SAFE. If the gu ide l ines for purchases of foreign exchange to make advance repayments for loans are satisfied, the debtor may subm it an app l ica t ion to the SAFE for the purchase. Renm inbi credits extended by banks to domestic in s t i tu t ions may be used on ly for productive pur- poses and may not be used to purchase foreign exchange for debt-service payments. When designated domestic Ch inese fo re ign exchange banks prov ide r e nm i n bi loans to FFEs, they may accept credit guarantees f rom fore ign banks and foreign ins t i tu t ions or foreign ex- change co l la teral f rom the FFEs. Financial credits The regu la t ions gove rn ing commerc ial cred i ts apply. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior SAFE approval is requ ired for f i n a n c i ng guarantees provided by domestic Chinese banks and all guaran tees provided by o ther ins t i tu t ions (with the exception of foreign- funded domestic f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions and who l ly foreign-owned enterprises). Prior ap- proval is not requ ired for bank-provided fore ign non fmanc ing guarantees, although external gua ran tee reg is t ra t ion must be comp le ted for all fore ign guarantees. Specific transaction- based approval by the SAFE is requ i red when a guarantee is exercised. To residents from nonresidents FFEs may accept guarantees f rom fore ign ins t i tu t ions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment On Ap r il 1, 2002, a new fou r - t ier classification was introduced, de f in ing activities in which fore ign exchange inve s tment is encouraged, permitted, restricted, or banned. As a result, many indu s t r i es that were p r e v i o u s ly closed to foreign investments, pa r t icu la r ly in the ser- vices sector, were opened. Outward direct inves tment is permitted only after examination of the source of the foreign exchange fund s, approval of the au tho r i t ies concerned w i th fore ign direct inves tmen t, and completion of offshore investment fore ign exchange registration. Foreign direct investment that does not invo lve fo re ign exchange purchases or outward fo re ign exchange remittance does not r equ i re exam ina t ion of the source of the foreign exchange funds. Foreign ex- change for strategic fore ign investment, offshore conversion, and foreign aid projects is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment guaranteed, and priority is given to foreign investment activities, such as export promo- tion, sc ien t if ic research and development, market development, and natural resource development. Nonresidents are free to invest in China as long as they meet requirements under Sino- foreign joint-venture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. There is no restriction on the inward remit- tance of funds as far as exchange control is concerned. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct investment in some industries is prohibited. Prior approval from the original review and approval department is required for liquidation. SAFE verification is required to purchase foreign exchange to remit funds belonging to foreign investors after liquidation. Controls on real estate transactions The regulations governing direct investment apply. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents With SAFE approval, foreign exchange may be purchased for remittance abroad using renminbi obtained by nonresidents from the sale of commercial real estate purchased origi- nally with foreign exchange. Foreign exchange may not be purchased using renminbi ob- tained from the sale of commercial real estate purchased originally using renminbi. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In case a resident's directly related family member abroad encounters illness, death, or unexpected disaster, the resident is allowed to purchase and remit abroad up to US$1,000 or its equivalent, once the resident has valid, notarized proof of the emergency or proof from the Chinese embassy or consulate; an application from the patient's local agency (work unit) or prescription from the hospital; the relevant documents from the resident's work unit (if without a work unit, from the local subdistrict office or the people's govern- ment department above the town level); and proof of the documents related to foreign ex- change payments. As for other foreign exchange purchases, amounts of up to US$500 or its equivalent may be provided by the bank. For a onetime purchase of foreign exchange for private purposes of an amount exceeding the stipulated standard and up to US$50,000, application to the local SAFE offices against specific documented proof is required; after verification by the local SAFE office, the foreign exchange needed may be purchased from the bank and remitted or taken abroad. When a onetime purchase exceeds the stipulated standard or US$50,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank provides the foreign exchange. Remittances from a resident's domestic foreign currency account for payments for gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a onetime amount of less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly through a bank. For amounts of more than US$10,000 but less than US$50,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with stipulated docu- mented proof, and, after verification by the local SAFE off ice, remittances may be made through a bank. For amounts of more than US$50,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE o f f ice for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Transfers of a resident's domestic foreign currency cash or deposits from a resident's for- eign currency cash account for payments of gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a onetime amount of less than US$2,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly by a bank. For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$10,000, application to the local SAFE office is required, with specific documented proof and corresponding customs decla- ration documents, before remittances may be made by a bank. For amounts exceeding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 235 US$10,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. If the foreign currency income from donations or legacies needs to be paid in foreign cur- rency cash or converted into renminbi and if the onetime amount is less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, payments may be made directly by banks. When the amount exceeds US$10,000 but is less than US$50,000, relevant documented proof must be provided to the banks or the SAFE. For inherited foreign currency, the required documentation includes proof of identification and authenticity, a notarized statement, and proof of tax clearance abroad. For household use of foreign currency, proof of identification, authenticity, and kinship are required. For foreign currency donations, proof of identification and authentic- ity and a donation agreement are needed. Banks may make the payments after verifying the documented proof and recording the transaction. When the amount exceeds US$50,000 but is less than US$200,000, application to the local SAFE off ice is required with documented proof, and after verification of authenticity by the local SAFE office, payments may be made through banks. For amounts exceeding US$200,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with documented proof, and the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Routine foreign exchange revenues, including retirement and pension funds, may be remit- ted abroad. Funds falling under capital items, such as proceeds from selling residential property, may not be converted into foreign exchange for remittance abroad; rent income, however, may be converted for remittance abroad. To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Registration with the SAFE is required for domestic banks to open foreign exchange ac- counts abroad. Domestic nonbank financial institutions and nonfmancial enterprises require prior approval by the SAFE. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Lending is subject mainly to review of qualifications by the PBC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Borrowers must register the transaction ex post with the SAFE and must obtain a permit from the SAFE to repay the principal. Effective January 1, 2003, SAFE registration and SAFE permission to repay the principal are not required for residents to borrow foreign exchange from domestic Chinese financial institutions. However, creditors must submit the regular loan registration to the SAFE and report the principal and interest repayment status. Securities denominated in foreign currency are not currently issued. There are d ifferent reserve requirements for deposits in renminbi and in foreign currency. A reserve requirement of 6% applies to renminbi deposits of Chinese-funded banks and foreign-funded banks. A reserve requirement of 2% applies to foreign exchange deposits of Chinese-funded banks. Different reserve requirements apply to foreign exchange deposits of foreign-funded banks —for deposits with maturities of less than three months, the re- quirement is 5%; for deposits with maturities of three months or more, the requirement is 3%. Required and excess reserves on renminbi deposits are remunerated at an annual rate of 2.07%. Reserves on foreign currency are not remunerated. The ratio of all liquid foreign exchange capital to all liquid foreign exchange liabilities may not be less than 60%. The ratio of the credit balance for a single borrower to a bank's net capital may not exceed 10%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Bank equ i ty investment should not exceed the d ifference between bank capital and manda- tory pa id- in cap i ta l. Nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions' total equ i ty investment (excluding trust accounts) should not exceed the d i f fe rence between their capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Investment in foreign securities other than equities on foreign securities markets by banks is subject to qua r te r ly approval by the PBC. In banks by nonresidents PBC approval is required. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts For f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) shou ld not exceed 20% of the foreign exchange wo rk ing capital. As au thor ized by the highest level of management, f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns trad ing foreign exchange on the ir own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but th is should not exceed 1% of the foreign exchange working capital or foreign exchange operating funds. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Con tro ls on cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts Controls on direct investment Changes During 2002 December 1. Forward exchange operations by the Indus tr ial and Commercial Bank of Ch ina, Ag r icu l tu ral Bank of China, Bank of Ch ina, and China Construction Bank are al- lowed w i th respect to current transactions, repayment of foreign exchange loans obtained abroad and registered with the SAFE, and other foreign exchange receipts and payments approved by the SAFE with a maximum maturity of 365 days. April I. The Chinese au tho r i t ies no t i f ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed ind iv idua l s, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism in ac- cordance w i th the re levant UN Security Counc il resolutions. October 15. All enterprises authorized to conduct current account transactions may retain foreign exchange equ iva lent to 20% of the ir current account foreign exchange earnings in the prev ious year, except for special purpose transactions, such as donations and interna- t ional postal rem i t tances, for wh ich there is no l im it on the amount that may be retained; the r em a in ing amoun ts must be surrendered to authorized banks. September 1. Pr ior approval by the CSRC was requ ired for OLDCs and CHFLCs to sell shares overseas. The foreign exchange proceeds may not be retained overseas w i thout SAFE approval and must be repatriated w i th in 30 days and kept in OLDCs' foreign ex- change accounts or converted into renminbi (with SAFE approval). December 1. QFIIs were allowed to invest domestically in A shares, subject to restrictions. April 1. A new four-tier classification was introduced, defining activities in which foreign inves tment is encouraged, permitted, restricted, or banned. As a result, many industries that were p rev ious ly closed to foreign investment, par t icu lar ly in the services sector, were , opened. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions P rov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and o ther credit i n s t i t u t i o ns January I. Registration w i th and permission from the SAFE to repay the principal were no longer requ ired for residents to borrow foreign exchange from domestic Chinese financial i n s t i t u t i o n s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong SAR is the Hong Kong do l lar. Commemorative gold co ins of HK$1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by collectors and seldom c ircu la te. The au tho r i t ies do not ma in ta in marg ins in exchange transactions. The currency board system in Hong Kong SAR, adopted on October 17, 1983, requires the monetary base to be backed by the reserve currency (i.e., the U.S. dollar) at the fixed ex- change rate of HKS7.80 to US$1. In Hong Kong SAR, the monetary base inc ludes the amount of banknotes and coins issued, the balance of clearing accounts of banks held with the Hong Kong Monetary Au tho r i ty (HKMA) (i.e., aggregate balance), and the outstanding amount of exchange fund b i l ls and notes. Operating under the rule-based currency board system, the HKMA has undertaken to issue additional exchange fund paper on ly when there is an inf low of funds, but the size of the program is allowed to expand along with the interest payments on such papers. The issue and redemption of Cer t if ica tes of Indeb tedness, wh ich provide back ing for bank- notes issued by the no te - issu ing banks, are requ ired to be made against U .S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HKS7.80 to US$1. The issue and withdrawal of coins and government-issued notes are settled against the U.S. dollar at the same fixed rate. An explicit conver t ib i l i ty undertaking was made by the HKMA for banks to convert Hong Kong dollar balances in the ir clearing accounts into U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.75 per US$1. This conve r t ib i l i ty rate moved by 1 pip (i.e., HK$0.0001) per calen- dar day u n t i l, on August 12, 2000, it reached the rate of HK$7.80, where it has rema ined. No. No. The forward exchange markets operate on private sector initiatives, and the government has no off ic ial role. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with the relevant regulations under the UN Sanctions Ordinance, UN sanc- tions are implemented by the Chief Execu t ive of the Hong Kong SAR gove rnment on the in s t ruc t ions of the M i n i s t ry of Foreign A f f a i rs of the Peop le's Repub l ic of Ch ina. Payments arrears No. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Import licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fu l f i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. Imports of rice are also subject to licensing requirements. In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, the import of ozone-depleting substances is subject to licenses and quota arrangements. Prior to January 1, 2003, when they were lifted, imports of rice were subject to quota arrangements. All imports are free of duty, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is lev- ied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 239 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Export licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fulfillment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. Exports of certain textile articles to some importing countries are subject to quotas as a result of the quantitative restrictions maintained by these countries on textile exports from Hong Kong SAR. In accordance with the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, tex- tile quotas will be abolished by 2005. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distributions from trusts, and dividends is not taxed in Hong Kong SAR; interest income from domestic sources received by banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong SAR is subject to a profits tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is not subject to the salary tax. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorpo- rated in Hong Kong SAR or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securities, and fu- tures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry within one month of establishing a business in Hong Kong SAR. Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, Limited, which oversees the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, and the Hong Kong Securities Clearing Com- pany, imposes disclosure and position limits on derivative products. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by non re s iden ts The l im i ts and re s t r ic t ions stated below are set by the HKMA for prudential reasons only. No d i s t i n c t i on is made between res ident and non res ident deposit accounts, Inves tment regu la t ions No d i s t i n c t i on is made between local and overseas investments. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (m in .) on investment por tfo l io held loca l ly Au tho r ized i n s t i t u t i o ns incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not acqu i re shares worth more than 5% of the cap i tal base of the in s t i tu t ion at the t ime of acqu is i t ion w i thout the approval of the HKMA. This restriction does not apply if the share capital (1) is held as security for f a c i l i t i es granted; (2) was acquired through an underwriting or subunderwriting contract for a period not to exceed seven days; or (3) was acquired through satisfaction of debts, in wh ich case the share capital must be disposed of at the earliest suitable opportu- n i ty, but not la ter th an 18 mon ths af ter i ts acqu i s i t ion. No au thor ized i n s t i t u t i on incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may purchase or hold any inter- est in fo re ign or domes t ic land in excess of an aggregate va lue of 25% of the capital base of the in s t i tu t ion. This restriction does not apply to (1) land that is necessary for conducting the business of the in s t i tu t ion or prov id ing housing or amenities for its staff, subject to HKMA approval; (2) interest in land that was mortgaged to the institution to secure a debt due to the i n s t i t u t i o n; (3) in te rest in land that accrues after the ins t i tu t ion has come into possession of the land, prov ided that the interest be disposed of at the earliest su i tab le op- po r tun i ty, but not la ter than 18 mon ths af ter acqu is i t ion. The aggregate h o l d i n gs of share cap i tal and interests in land, together w i th the outstanding amoun ts of all f a c i l i t i es owned by d i rec to rs (or related parties) of an authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR, may not at any time exceed 80% of the institution's capi- tal base. No person sha ll become a ma jo r i ty shareholder controller, a minority shareholder control- ler, or an ind i rect con tro l ler of an authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR w i thout HKMA app rova l. Any person who becomes such a controller must no t i fy the HKMA w i t h in 14 days. All au tho r ized i n s t i t u t i o ns are requ i red to report to the HKMA their foreign currency posi- t ions ( i n c l u d i ng op t ions) m o n t h l y. Loca l ly incorporated ins t i tu t ions are required to report t h e ir conso l ida ted fo re ign currency pos i t ions. The aggregate net overnight open position (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of ind iv idual currencies) should not nor- m a l ly exceed 5% (and, in any event, not more than 15%) of the capital base of any institu- t ion, and the net overn ight open pos i t ion in any ind iv idual currency should not exceed 10% of the cap i tal base. For subs id ia r ies of fore ign banks, where the parent bank consolidates the fo re ign exchange r i sk on a g lobal basis and for wh ich there is adequate home supervi- sion, the HKMA may accept h igher l im i ts. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA re- views and mon i to rs the ir in ternal l im i ts, wh ich are usua l ly set by their head offices and home supervisory au tho r i t ies. In add i t ion to these l im i t s, loca l ly incorporated ins t i tu t ions are required to provide regula- tory capital for foreign exchange risk such that their adjusted capital adequacy ratio (incor- po ra t ing market r isk) shou ld be above the respective statutory m in imum ratios. For the Mandatory Prov ident Fund schemes, at least 30% of a constituent fund must be he ld in Hong Kong do l la r -denom ina ted currency investments, as measured by effec t ive cu r rency exposure. There is no m i n i m um l im it on the amount that insu rance companies may hold in invest- men ts in loca l ly issued secu r i t ies. However, in su rance companies carrying on direct general insurance business loca l ly are requ ired to maintain assets in Hong Kong to match their l i ab i l i t i es from such insurance business. The form of assets is not limited to local securities and may be in the form of cash, bank deposits, or landed properties. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities compos i t ion Insurance companies w i th long-term foreign currency l iab i l i t ies must enact prudential pro- v is ions to l im it the effects of exchange rate changes on their asset base unless these l iab i l i- t ies are covered by adequate fo re ign currency ho ld ings not subject to exchange risk. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 241 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January I. The quo ta arrangements on imports of rice were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Colombia is the Colombian peso. Various commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax All foreign exchange transactions are conducted at a market-determined exchange rate. The central bank, Banco de la Republica (BR), quotes buying and selling rates for certain cur- rencies on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. The Superintendency of Banks (SB) calculates a representative market exchange rate based on the weighted average of purchases and sales effected by foreign exchange market interme- diaries, excluding teller and forward transactions. The government purchases foreign ex- change for all pub l ic debt payments and other expenditures under the same conditions as other authorized local intermediaries. Remittances of earnings by existing oil and non-oil foreign investments are subject to a 7% surtax, unless earnings are reinvested w i th in five years. Additionally, a 3% withholding tax applies to foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are permitted to buy forward coverage against exchange rate risks with respect to foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered with the BR. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The use of foreign exchange in internal transactions among residents is forbidden with the exception of (1) transactions between and among mineral sector firms (e.g., coal, nickel, gas, and oil) and services-related firms; (2) sales of fuel used in international transportation; (3) purchases and sales of oil and gas by Ecopetrol and companies engaged in downstream and upstream activities; (4) authorized local insurance and reinsurance contracts; and (5) charges related to international transport services and payments through special ac- counts registered with the BR. Settlements between Colombia and the other LAIA countries are effected through accounts maintained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Colombia maintains a reciprocal credit agreement with China. Barter agreements and open accounts These are proh ib i ted. Administration of control The MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over exchange transactions. The BR ma in ta ins accounting records on foreign investments in Colombia and debts abroad, and tracks transfers of profits, dividends, and commissions. The SB, the Superintendency of F inanc ial Associations (SFA), and the Superintendency of Security and Exchange (SSE) are also responsible for the administration of exchange regulations. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes COLOMBIA 243 No. No. The BR sells domestic gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the London gold market during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. Except for the BR, all imports and exports of domestic and foreign currency must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries. Travelers are allowed to take out or bring in do- mestic and foreign currency notes freely, but for amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000, a customs report must be filed. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are restricted to travel agencies, international transport companies, compa- nies and stores in free-trade areas, duty-free shops, nonresident companies and their em- ployees working in Colombia, diplomatic missions, and multilateral entities and their employees. Residents may maintain these accounts freely, although BR registration is required for transfers from these accounts for payments of debt, investments, purchases of derivatives, and trade-related operations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .r. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive current account deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms, and balances on these accounts may be used without restriction, but quarterly reports, including balances, must be submitted to the BR. Deposits in these accounts may be used only for trade-related transactions only, and banks must report transactions involving these accounts to the BR on a quarterly basis. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 COLOMBIA F inanc ing requ irements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Impo r te rs may pu rcha se fo re ign exchange d i rec t ly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits he ld abroad or make payments with international cred it cards. L e n d i ng for f i n a n c i ng impor ts may be effected by the foreign seller, a foreign f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n, or an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry on ly. All payments for imports must be effected through authorized intermediaries or foreign exchange accounts registered at the BR against appropriate transport documentation and a customs dec lara t ion. There is a g lobal free l i st app l i c ab le to all coun t r ies and most imports are free of restric- t ion s. The M i n i s t ry of Trade, Indu s t ry and Tou r ism (MTIT), however, may administer l i c e n s i ng r e q u i r em e n ts w i th respect to special customs regimes and for purposes of anti- d um p i ng con t ro l, and p ro tec t ion of domestic indus t r ies. Imports of the fo l low ing goods are sub ject to l i c e n s i ng r equ i r em en t s: fresh, ch i l led, or frozen chicken and chicken offa l; pre- pared and preserved ch i ck en; pha rmaceu t ical and chemical products; weapons and mun i- t ions; tires; ropes and s tr ing; special a irsh ip vehicles; and warships. In addition, imports of the f o l l ow i ng are non re imbu rsab le: goods exempted from customs taxes; secondhand goods; imperfect or res idual goods; goods under the annual licensing system; and goods subm i t ted by an o f f i c i al agency, except for gas and urea. R e im b u r s a b le impo r ts i n v o l ve pu rchases of fo re ign exchange f rom foreign exchange inter- m ed i a r i e s, i n c l u d i ng impo r ts of m a c h i n e ry and equ ipment f inanced by in te rna t ional credit i n s t i t u t i o n s. N o n r e im b u r s a b le imports consist m a i n ly of aid imports under grants and com- mod i t i es c o n s t i t u t i ng part of a d irect inves tmen t. Import registrations are granted automati- c a l l y. However, impo rt reg i s t ra t ions by some p u b l ic sector agencies are screened by the MT IT to d e t e rm ine w h e t h er local s u b s t i t u t es are ava i lab le. Both import licenses and regis- t r a t i o ns are v a l id for s ix mon th s, except those for ag r i cu l tu r al and livestock products, and the p recu rso ry subs tances for d rugs. These import licenses are valid for two months. Import l icenses for cap i tal goods are good for 12 mon ths. Import licenses may be extended only three t imes, except for l icenses for the precursory substances for drugs. Negative l ist Yes. Other non t a r i ff measures Con t ro ls for san i ta ry, h e a l th, or env i ronm en t al protection purposes are enforced. Import taxes and/or tariffs W i th certain exceptions, imports are subject to the GET of the Andean Pact. The simple average ta r i ff rate is app rox ima te ly 11%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary w i th in six mon ths or ma in ta ined in foreign accounts registered at the BR. Prior to September 6, 2002, when these rates were reduced to zero, exporters of products other than coffee, petro- leum, and pe tro leum products, upon surrendering export proceeds to the foreign exchange market, cou ld receive tax credit cer t if ica tes at 2.25%, 2.5%, or 3.0% of domestic value, depend ing on the p roduc t, the c o u n t ry of de s t ina t ion, and the date of shipment. As of Sep- tember 6, 2002, these ce r t i f ica tes, wh i ch are f ree ly negotiable and quoted on the stock ex- change, are accepted at par by tax o f f ices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and cer ta in o ther taxes. Expor ts of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing provisos: (1) the m in imum surrender price is the sales p r ice shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters must pay a coffee con t r ibu t ion on the basis of in terna t ional market prices; (3) the National Coffee Committee —composed of the m in is ters of finance and agriculture and the managing director of the Colombian Coffee Growers' Association —has the right to establish a physical coffee con t ingent on the basis of international coffee prices; and (4) for export- type coffee, the Na t ional Coffee Committee must establish a domestic price expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 k i lograms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 245 Financing requirements If export proceeds are received four months or more after shipment, the settlement is con- sidered a credit operation, and a deposit requirement is applied. Documentation requirements Controls are enforced for sanitary, health, and environmental protection purposes. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, or patents must be registered with the MTIT for statistical purposes only. Capital investments must be registered with the BR before profits may be repatriated. An- nual transfers of profits abroad and repatriations of capital are not restricted, but they may be temporarily restricted if international reserve holdings of the BR fall below the equiva- lent of three months' imports. The limit on contractual interest rates for public debt is determined by the BR, which sets the maximum applicable rate taking several factors into account, including the country risks and the international liquidity situation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of these instruments, whether locally by nonresidents or abroad by residents, must be registered with the BR. Nonresidents must establish an investment fund to partici- pate in the stock market. The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a domestic financial institution requires the prior approval of the SB. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents All sales and issues are subject to the prior approval of the SFA. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be registered with the BR. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents must establish an investment fund to purchase these securities. Effective June 7, 2002, purchases by nonresidents may not exceed 20% of the total issue, and the maturities of securities with a fixed interest rate must be less than two years. These transac- tions must be effected through an authorized intermediary or foreign exchange account registered at the BR. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior SB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 COLOMBIA Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective June 7, 2002, investors making transactions exceeding the equivalent of US$500,000 must be registered at the BR. These transactions may be carried out through an authorized intermediary or a foreign exchange account registered with the BR. These transactions must be reported to the BR and the issue requires the prior approval of the SSE. On June 7, 2002, the BR introduced regulations on the sale and issue of bonds and other debt securities abroad by residents. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective Ju ly 26, 2002, the issuance of securities index derivatives is allowed. Purchases are allowed only by foreign investors registered with the BR, and domestic risks must be covered in the local market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are allowed to make these transactions with professional brokers with a mini- mum nominal portfolio value of the equivalent of US$1 billion. These transactions must be effected through an authorized intermediary or a foreign cur- rency account registered with the BR and must be reported to the BR. Credits must be registered with the BR. The nonremunerated deposit requirement for exter- nal financing is zero percent of the disbursement of any loan, and the period is determined by the BR. Anticipated payments and export credits over US$10,000 or its equivalent with maturities longer than 12 months are subject to deposit in U.S. dollars. Exempted from the deposit requirement are the financing of imports; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters for up to 12 months for the maximum amount of US$550 million; credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian investments abroad; the disbursement of soft loans from foreign governments; external credits to finance margin calls in forward and options operations; and external loans transacted by public entities engaged in discounting. In the case of prepayment of export credits, exporters must prove that over 85% of the declared value has been in fact exported. All public financing (bor- rowing and bond issues) in foreign currencies, including that by the central and local gov- ernments, is also subject to nonremunerated deposit. There is a limit determined by the BR on contractual interest rates for the public sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the MOF. For loans to the government, or guaranteed by the government, the following are also required: prior au- thorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy, prior consultation with the Committee of the Congress on Public Credit, and ex post approval from the presi- dent of the republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the beginning of negotiations. Residents may engage in international lending through an authorized intermediary or a foreign exchange account registered with the BR only. These transactions must be re- ported to the BR. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are allowed through foreign financial institutions or authorized interme- diaries only and are subject to a deposit requirement. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be effected through an authorized intermediary or foreign ex- change accounts registered with the BR. These transactions must be reported to the BR and must be effected through authorized intermediaries or foreign exchange accounts registered with the BR, and are subject to de- posit requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 247 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments must be approved by and registered with the BR. Investments must be approved by and registered with the BR. Up to 100% ownership may be permitted in any sector. Special regimes are in effect for the financial, mining, and pe- troleum sectors. Investment in defense and toxic and radioactive waste management are prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be effected through an authorized intermediary or foreign ex- change accounts registered with the BR. If the purchase is greater than US$500,000 or its equivalent, the transaction must be registered with the BR. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be registered with the BR. Controls on personal capital transactions Temporary controls on personal capital movements may be imposed if the international reserve holdings of the BR fall below the equivalent of three months' imports. Loans These must be channeled through an authorized intermediary or foreign exchange accounts registered with the BR. By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the BR. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions must be reported to the BR. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions must be reported to the BR. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Deposits in foreign exchange are not subject to reserve requirements. Credit institutions may invest in financial assets abroad, except for instruments issued by their subsidiaries. Purchases exceeding 10% in a local financial institution require prior authorization of the SB. In the case of institutions undergoing privatization, the limit is 5%. Open foreign exchange position limits The limits are 20% and 5% of net worth. The limit for net external assets in cash is 50% of net worth. There are no regulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to authorized financial intermediaries because they do not have access to the BR. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits on portfolio investment by institutional investors is set according to the nature of the security, the type of funds, and the supervisory body. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Limits on portfolio investment by institutional investors is set according to the nature of the security, the type of funds, and the supervisory body. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These is a limit of 20% on portfolio investments by pension funds, Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 COLOMBIA Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Changes During 2002 September 6. The rates of tax credit certificates issued to exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum, and petroleum products and exports effected through special arrange- ments were reduced to zero from 2.25%, 2.5%, and 3% of domestic value (depending on the product, the destination, and the date of shipment). Controls on capital and money market instruments June 7. Investors making transactions exceeding the equivalent of US$500,000 were re- quired to be registered with the BR. June 7. Purchases by nonresidents could not be greater than 20% of the total issue, and the maturities of securities with a fixed interest rate must be less than two years. June 7. The BR introduced regulations on the sale and issue of bonds and other debt securi- ties abroad by residents. July 26. The issuance of securities index derivatives was permitted, Controls on derivatives and other instruments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Comorian franc is pegged to the euro at CF 491.96775 per €1. Exchange rates are offi- cially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the euro and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros (CBC) and is provided to traders for up to three months by a commercial bank that is au- thorized to conduct this transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Comoros is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign Comorian franc accounts. Comoros is a member of COMESA and RIFF. Yes. The Minister of Finance and Budget has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the CBC and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. With the exception of transactions relating to gold, the country's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose banks of issue are linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (WAEMU and CAEMC members). Statistical reporting is required to monitor speculative transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 COMOROS Controls on external trade Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold require prior authorization. Exports and imports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to CF 500,000 may be exported. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to CBC approval, which is granted if supporting documentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment issued abroad in their name without providing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents are produced. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted if applicants meet the criteria for nonresident eligibility. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 251 Import licenses and other nontariff measures The importation of most goods, except for those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to notification for statistical purposes. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs The importation of certain goods from all countries is prohibited for health or security reasons. Import duty rates are 20%, 30%, and 40% for general merchandise. The import duty rate for tobacco is 180% and that for spirits ranges between 200% and 250%. An administrative fee of 3% is levied on imports that are exempt from duty. On January 8, 2002, all specific import duties—except those applied to petroleum products, rice, and meat—were converted to equivalent ad valorem rates. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the expira- tion of the commercial contract. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold immediately after repatriation to an authorized bank. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements With a few exceptions, exports to any destination have no licensing requirements. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required by customs regulations. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Notification is required for statistical purposes. Yes. A temporary export tax of 5% is levied on vanilla. Taxes are levied on specific luxury products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other payments, except investment-related transfers, are subject to indicative limits or bona fide tests. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investments is au- thorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Yes. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the CBC on submission of supporting documentation. Personal payments These transactions are authorized on presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 COMOROS Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test The limits for tourist and business travel apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities CBC authorization is required to effect these transactions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments There is no local market in these instruments. On co l lec t ive investment securities There is no local market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There is no local market in these instruments. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a max imum maturity of 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 253 To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Controls relate to the approval of the underlying transactions, not to payments or receipts. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Settlement of debt is permitted upon presentation of supporting documentation, Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Lending is permitted for economic activities in the Comoros, Lending locally in foreign exchange Such lending does not take place in practice. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There is no local market for these securities, Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 COMOROS Provisions specific to institutional investors There is no local market for these transactions. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Imports and import payments January 8. All specific import duties, except those applied to petroleum products, rice, and meat were converted to equivalent ad valorem rates. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 10, 2003. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the Congo franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements The exchange rate of the Congo franc is determined by supply and demand. The Central Bank of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (BCC) publishes the daily exchange rate, which is based on the combined average of the amounts and rates applied in transactions, as reported by exchange bureaus and banks. The BCC, while observing the international re- serves target in the monetary program, intervenes to smooth exchange rate fluctuations, but not against market fundamentals. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institutions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1%. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and finan- cial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5%. A charge of 0.2% is levied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of 23 convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the BCC. Residents must make payments to nonresi- dents in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in Congo francs or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made in SDRs and through UCAC accounts established under ar- rangements concluded by the BCC with the central banks of the countries concerned. These operations are suspended at present, however. Balances on these UCAC accounts at the end of the settlement periods—each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for CEEAC countries—are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settle- ments (other than for reexports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through accounts with foreign correspondent banks after clearing by the Central African Clearing House through its account with the BCC. Current transactions between residents and non- residents have been fully liberalized, but they still must be reported for statistical and moni- toring purposes. Residents may use foreign exchange in transactions among themselves, except in conjunc- tion with the following: residential rent, education, health-related expenditures, and elec- tricity. The costs for these are fixed and may be paid only in domestic currency. Inoperative Yes. Regional arrangements The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a member of the COMES A. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Clearing agreements Administration of control There are arrangements with Burundi and Rwanda. Payments are made through the SDR accounts of the BCC and the central banks of the other two countries. These arrangements, however, are presently inoperative, as is the clearing agreement of the COMESA. Foreign exchange transactions must be conducted through the BCC or authorized foreign exchange dealers. The BCC also supervises authorized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange positions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Only nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, transport, trade sell, or hold gold within the country outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons may do so only on behalf of, and for the account of, authorized marketing agencies. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exports of gold by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the BCC. Resident and nonresident travelers must declare their foreign exchange holdings upon en- tering or ex i t ing the country. Travelers exiting the country are authorized to carry an amount of foreign exchange not to exceed $10,000 or its equivalent, except if they are in international transit or on a service mission, in which case they are obliged to declare the amounts of foreign exchange. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. An unlimited amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country, but amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Resident Accounts These accounts are permitted and may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denomi- nated in any currency for which the BCC publishes exchange rates. Authorized banks are permitted to open accounts in foreign currency for residents and non- residents w i thout prior approval from the BCC. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 257 Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction. Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BCC. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments may not exceed 20% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Other Importers must obtain an import declaration from an authorized bank that is valid for 12 months. With a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and approved by the foreign agents of the Control Office of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (OCC). Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of up to the equivalent of $2,500 a shipment. Rules for imports follow the generally accepted international payment modes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import-licensing requirements, other than those with respect to negative lists, are main- tained for statistical purposes only. Positive list Negative list Yes. Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authori- zation from the government. Open general licenses Global import licenses are authorized for the imported goods that are of similar categories. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated within 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank within 10 days after the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports, including consignment, must be repatriated as soon as the goods have been sold. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must obtain an export declaration form that is valid for three months from an authorized bank. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _258 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Preshipment inspection All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the OCC; coffee exports also require a quality certificate from the National Coffee Office. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export-licensing requirements are for statistical purposes only. Yes. The export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers A declaration for payments on account for invisible transactions must be submitted. Trade-related payments Payment of commissions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits or bona fide tests are applied to payments of freight, insurance, and com- missions. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the author- ized banks as needed by the account holders. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on treasury bill transactions. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 259 Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Both outward and inward direct investments are permitted, subject to a license from a bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted, subject to prior BCC authorization, only at the time of liquidation, nationaliza- tion, or partial or total transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Personal capital transfers are unrestricted, generally authorized, and do not require licenses. However, they must be carried out through the banking system. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Bridge loans require prior consent of the BCC. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position, Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position, Credit controls Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The ceiling on the foreign exchange position of each bank is authorized by the BCC. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Status under IMF Articles of Agreement February 10. The Democratic Republic of the Congo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: J u ne 1, 1996. Currency The currency of the Repub l ic of Congo is the CFA franc. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market. Payments to all coun- tries are subject to a commission of 0.75% (exclusive of VAT) with a minimum charge of CFAF 75. Exempt f rom th is commission are payments of the state, the Postal and Tele- communications Administration, and the BEAC member countries; salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad; expenditures of o f f ic ial missions abroad; scholarships of persons study- ing or training abroad; payments made on behalf of individuals for purchases of books and periodicals not intended for sale; and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Republic of Congo. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements No. No. There are no spot or forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their positions on the Paris foreign exchange market. Forward exchange cover must be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the con- tracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Repub l ic of Congo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are u s u a l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign ac- counts in CFA francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Accoun t. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CAEMC are harmonized. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Payments to CAEMC coun t r ies are unres tr ic ted. Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations (DGCRF) in the Ministry of Economy, F inance, and Budget (MEFB) supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the MEFB, which has delegated approval authority to the DGCRF. All exchange transactions w i th fore ign countries must be effected through author- ized intermediaries. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 REPUBLIC OF CONGO International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior authorization of the MEFB is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The prior authorization of the MEFB is required to import or export gold in any form. Ex- empt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and ex- empt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents or nonresidents may export from any member country of the BEAC area, but exports of banknotes outside the CAEMC area are prohibited. However, a limit of CFAF 100,000 is granted to resident travelers on their departure and arrival. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to France or the Operations Account countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment in- struments in euros. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the amount declared at the time of entry; the reexportation of foreign banknotes exceeding this limit requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that the bank- notes had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from a member country of the BEAC. However, imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC are prohibited. Travelers are authorized to enter the Republic of Congo with banknotes and coins other than CFA francs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts are not allowed in principle; however, companies may hold foreign ex- change accounts with special approval. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts REPUBLIC OF CONGO 263 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts are intended primarily for the use of international agencies and embassies. However, prior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were in force in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes in circulation outside the area of issue, these may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFA francs. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million with countries other than CAEMC countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from these countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and approved by the Foreign Trade Directorate and the DGCRF. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs An annual import program classifies imports by the following zones: (1) the countries of the CAEMC, (2) France, (3) other Operations Account countries, (4) EU countries other than France, and (5) all remaining countries. Nine items under this program require li- censes, and others are subject to ex post declaration. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and without licenses. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Imports of cement are subject to quotas. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in the Republic of Congo. The common external tariff rates in the CAEMC member countries are 5% for basic neces- sities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods requiring special protection. Intra-CAEMC customs duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been introduced on imports of goods previously subject to quantitative restrictions. These surcharges are to be eliminated in three to six years, with the longer period applying to certain agricultural and textile products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CAEMC zone must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of other Operations Ac- count countries must be surrendered within one month of collection. Financing requirements n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Documentation requirements D om i c i l i a t i on Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes All export transac t ions in excess of CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled with an authorized bank. All exports require an exchange commitment that must be underwritten within eight days from the export date. Yes. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to CAEMC countries are permitted freely; payments to other coun- tries are sub ject on ly to declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MEFB for approval. Payments for inv i s ib les related to trade are permitted free ly when the underly- ing trade transaction has been approved or does not require approval. Investment-related payments The regulations in force guarantee the repatriation of profits, dividends, and proceeds from disinvestment abroad. Prior approval Payments for deprec ia t ion of direct investments requ ire DGCRF approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Cred it card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Res iden ts t rave l ing for tour ist or business purposes to CAEMC countries are allowed to take out an un l im i ted amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in CFA francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 200,000 per day with a maximum of CFAF 4 m i l l i on per tr ip per person; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 500,000 per day with a m a x im um of CFAF 10 m i l l i on per tr ip per person. All resident travelers, regardless of de s t ina t ion, must declare in w r i t ing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the time of depar ture. Yes. Yes. The a l lowance for travel to coun tr ies other than CAEMC countries for medical treatment and educa t ional purposes is CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. Transfers abroad, o ther than to CAEMC coun tr ies, of pensions and payments for medical expenses, s tud ies abroad, a l imony, and f am i ly ma in tenance are authorized upon presenta- t i on of suppo r t ing documen ts. Yes. Foreign nationals working in CAEMC countries are allowed to transfer part of their net salary abroad upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i t h in three mon ths of the pay period du r ing wh ich the funds were earned. Yes. Yes. The use of c red it cards, wh ich must be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFB, is l im i ted to the ce i l ings applied for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 265 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with CAEMC countries may be retained. Proceeds of over CFAF 5 m i l l ion that are received f rom residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. All proceeds over CFAF 5 m i l l ion for services, as well as income earned in those countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers between the Republic of Congo, France, Monaco, and the other Opera- t ions Account coun t r ies may be effected freely, provided that they are not related to activi- ties that are prohibited under CAEMC regulations, although ex post declarations are re- quired. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, fore ign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Republic of Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Republic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEFB. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec t ion w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Repub l ic of Congo has p rev ious ly been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Special con tro ls (in addition to any exchange control requirement that may apply) are main- tained over borrowing and lend ing abroad. All lend ing in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is ob- ta ined from the MEFB. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans whose total amoun ts ou ts tand ing do not exceed the equ iva lent of CFAF 100 million for any one lender. Loans do not require authorization, however, their repayment must be reported to the DGCRF w i th in 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 REPUBLIC OF CONGO To residents from nonresidents Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEFB. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans in which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least two years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans not requiring authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Prior approval of the MEFB is required. Inward direct investment Investments of over CFAF 100 million (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Republic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo) require the prior approval of the MEFB within 30 days, unless they involve the creation of a mixed public/private-ownership enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments must be declared to the MEFB within 30 days. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican colon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax The external value of the colon is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among au- thorized traders, where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its intervention operations. For- eign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. The government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transac- tions with the state commercial banks and the CB at the official reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the ex- change rates used in the market during the previous business day, adjusted on the basis of the d ifferen t ial between the rates of inf la t ion in Costa Rica and in its main trading partners. During 2002, the annual rate of crawl was 9.8%. A tax, calculated as the average daily spread between buying and selling rates multiplied by the transaction amount, is applied to all transactions in the exchange market. During 2002, the tax rate averaged 10%. Proceeds from this tax must be transferred to the CB within one day. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in dollars. Trade payments to Cen- tral America may be made in dollars or in local currencies. Regional arrangements Costa Rica is a member of the CACM. Administration of control Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SUGEF). International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Natural and jur id ical persons may buy or sell domestically produced gold (except national trade archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of foreign currency are free but are usually carried out through the CB. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 COSTA RICA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conv e r t ib le in to fo re ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the Ministry of Economy, Indus t ry, and Commerce (MEIC). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopo ly Customs tar iffs on most goods range up to 15%. In addition, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from wh ich certain essential items are exempt; and (2) se lec t ive con sump t ion taxes at rates ranging from zero to 100%. Impor ts of f u el are made by the Costa R ican Pe tro leum R e f in e ry and imports of grain by the Na t ional Counc il of Production. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requ irements Exporters must report rece ip ts from exports w i t h in 90 days af ter the end of the fiscal year. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements An export form must be f i led. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Licenses are requ i red for the fo l low ing goods from their respective agencies: armaments, mun i t ion s, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the MEIC; sugar from the Ag ro - Indu s t r i al Cane League (LA ICA ); beans, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and tho roughb red cattle from the Na t ional Counc il of Produc t ion; airplanes from the C iv il Av ia t ion Board and the MEIC; Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the N a t i o n al Museum; tobacco from the Tobacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, cats, dogs, certain l ives tock, and w i ld an ima ls and plants of the forest from the Ministry of A g r i c u l t u re and Livestock; bananas f rom the National Banana Corporation; and coffee ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export taxes COSTA RICA 269 f rom the Coffee I n s t i t u t e. In add i t ion, when there is a l i en on coffee in favor of a bank, the bank's approval is required before the CB w i ll grant an export license. Taxes are levied on coffee and bananas and, in some cases, are graduated in line with inter- national prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside Central America. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments A 15% w i t h h o l d i ng tax is lev ied on all prof i ts, d iv idend s, and remittances of in terest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or the ir f inanc ial entities recognized by the CB as ins t i tu t ions norma l ly engaged in international transactions, and for interest payments on government borrowing abroad. Informa t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Receipts of proceeds must be reported w i th in 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The MQF has been authorized by the na t ional assembly to issue bonds in in terna t ional markets. These bonds are to be issued annu a l ly —b eg inn ing in 2000 and c o n t i n u i ng for f ive years —in amounts equ iva lent to $250 m i l l i o n, except for the year 2003, when the amount w i ll be increased to the equ iva lent of $450 m i l l ion. If the annual amount is not issued or sold by the end of a year, the r em a i n i ng amount w i ll be added to the amount for the fo l low- ing year. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The Na t ional Budget Au tho r i ty (composed of the M in i s ter of Finance, the M in is ter of P lann ing, and the President of the CB) is in charge of au thor iz ing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Pr iva te commercial banks, f in an ce companies, and cooperatives must in fo rm the CB when con trac t ing credits abroad. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. n .a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 COSTA RICA Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax Authorized banks charge a proportional commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury, and a fixed commission, which they may set freely. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract foreign exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Cote d'lvoire is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMAC members and the Comoros) are made mainly in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are allowed freely for current account transactions. Capital transactions are subject to exchange authori- zation (which must be filed with the Ministry of State, Ministry of Economy and Finance — MSMEF), except in the fo l low ing cases: (1) transfers of the amounts required for contrac- tual settlements of debts or for repayments of short-term loans granted for financing com- mercial and industrial operations; (2) transfers of proceeds from the liquidation of invest- ments or the sale of foreign securities by nonresidents; and (3) payments for purchases of options. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MSMEF and the BCEAO. Since the regulations governing external financial relations of WAEMU member countries came into force (on February 1, 1999), most of the supervisory authority has been delegated to authorized intermediary banks which are required to report on the transactions carried out under their supervision. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of the MSMEF or the BCEAO relate to outward investments by nonresidents and domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents. The BCEAO is spe- c if ica l ly authorized to collect, either directly or through intermediary banks, other financial institutions or the postal administration, any information necessary to prepare the balance of payments statistics. It is also authorized to monitor the external position of banks. The 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 COTE D'lVOIRE International security restrictions No. max imum amount of transfers that may be effected w i thout supporting documents is CFAF 300,000. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MSMEF. The export of CFA f ranc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchases of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. The shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized banks and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is s t r ic t ly p roh ib i ted. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requ i res documen ta t ion demonstrating e i ther the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits at local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are a l lowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 mil- l i on a person. Larger amoun ts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank draf ts, or other means of payment. Imports of domestic currency by resident travelers are permitted freely. The shipment of BCEAO bankno tes between au thor ized intermediaries and the ir correspondents located ou ts ide the WAEMU zone is s t r ic t ly proh ib i ted. Res ident and non r e s id ent trave lers may b r ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins) of coun t r ies ou ts ide the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign bankno tes exceeding the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized bank w i th in eight days of their return. Nonresidents bringing in fo re ign bankno tes and t rave le r 's checks in foreign currency exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 1 m i l l i on must declare it at the customs off ice. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res iden ts are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks or with banks abroad af ter ob t a in ing au tho r iza t ion from the MSMEF and with the approval of the BCEAO. Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad H o l d i ng these accounts is subject to au tho r iza t ion by the MSMEF with the prior approval of the BCEAO. The open ing of accoun ts abroad by res iden ts is subject to authorization by the MSMEF w i th the p r ior approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts COTE D'lVOIRE 273 Nonresident Accounts Non re s iden ts are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO au tho r iza t ion is requ i red. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i r c u l a t i ng ou ts ide the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior authorization of the MSMEF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may f ree ly debit their foreign accounts in CFA francs for the purpose of pur- chasing fore ign cu r rency on the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and subm i t t ing suppor t ing documents, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment of goods if a documen tary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the goods have already been imported. Domiciliation requ iremen ts A dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen t, wh ich must be channe led through an authorized bank, applies to all imports from outside the CFA franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Inspection for qua l i ty and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion; imports valued under CFAF 3 m i l l i on may be subject to random inspection. LCs are required for goods imported from ou ts ide the EU, Operations Account coun tr ies, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requ ir ing prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requ ir ing li- censes issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) free ly importable goods. Open general licenses Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of Exter- nal Trade Promo t ions in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% commu- n i ty so l idar i ty fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. va lue of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. Imports from non-ECOWAS coun tr ies are subject to an additional commun i ty tax of 0.5%. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion. Proceeds from exports t o -WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to banks w i th in 30 days of the payment due date. The author- ized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer th rough the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 COTE D'lVOIRE Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin, as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MSMEF, with the excep- tion of articles with only a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through an auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the regulatory body of these commodities. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are also permitted, subject to documentary require- ments. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits The transfer abroad of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be effected freely, but must be made through an authorized bank and reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Payments of depreciation of direct investments are not expressly provided for in the legislation and, as such, require prior MSMEF approval. Yes. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may carry foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 2 million a person. Amounts exceeding this limit must be in the form of trav- eler's checks, bank drafts, or other instruments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, family maintenance, or alimony. These payments may be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appro- priate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pen- sions and work-related activities; and service contracts are authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O TE D ' lVO IRE 275 Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Y e s. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Y e s. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions w i th n o n - W A E MU members must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions w i th W A E MU members may be retained. A ll amounts due from residents of other countries w i th respect to services and a ll income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds N o. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Cap i tal inflows to W A E MU member countries are unrestricted, w i th the exception of direct investment, wh ich is subject to pr ior declaration, and certain bo r row ing operations, wh ich require prior authorization. A ll investments abroad by residents require pr ior M S M EF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must be effected by bo r row ing from abroad. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. In accordance w i th the new direction of economic po l i cy aimed at attracting foreign investment, foreign exchange laws currently in force in W A E MU member countries do not control capital inf lows. Under the new foreign exchange laws, the term "foreigner" refers to countries that are not members of the C FA franc zone. However, w i th respect to the local issue and offer for sale of foreign securities, the term "foreigner" means a ll countries outside the territory of the member country concerned. Controls on capital and money market instruments W i th the exception of the issue and sale of foreign securities in Co te d 'I vo ire, operations in securities are not covered exp l ic i t ly by specific laws. By their nature, however, these opera­ tions are s t i ll subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents There are no controls on transfers related to the sale of foreign securities by residents and to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. Fo re ign investments in W A E MU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The pr ior authorization of the R C P S FM is required for the issuance and marketing of secu­ rities and capital assets of foreign entities, as w e ll as for pub l ic i ty and advertising of i n­ vestments abroad. A ny investment by residents abroad requires the p r ior approval of the M S M E F. There are no controls, provided that a pr ior declaration is made in the case of direct investment. Sale or issue lo c a l ly by nonresidents The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Cote dTvo i re by nonresidents require prior authorization by the R C P S F M. Securities issued or offered for sale by a nonresident w i th pr ior authorization may be pur­ chased freely by a resident. The same applies to payments for these purchases by residents, subsequent to the presentation of supporting documentation. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations gov­ erning the financial settlement of the operation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 COTE D'lVOIRE Se t t lement of secu r i t ies transac t ions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requ i res an exchange au thor iza t ion to be submitted to the MSMEF for approval, accompa- nied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by res iden ts These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MSMEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Res iden ts may sell local corporate secur i t ies abroad. If these operations result in foreign con t rol of Ivo i r ien corporations, foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to the MSMEF. The sale of securities to l iqu ida te an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MSMEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue secur i t ies abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The regu la t ions govern ing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents N o n r e s i d e n ts may acqu i re money market ins t rumen ts through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the MSMEF. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- t ions is un res t r ic ted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected th rough an au thor ized bank and reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MSMEF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no con tro ls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to l iqu ida te an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market ins t rumen ts abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non res iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Residents may purchase or sell options abroad freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior MSMEF approval. Such approval is not requ i red, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or for those that comp ly w i th spec i f ic cond i t ions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by resi- den ts is subject on ly to repo r t ing for statistical purposes. G r a n t i ng of these c red i ts is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resu l t ing from exports of goods mu st be co l lec ted and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i t h in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its des t ina t ion. (2) Claims resulting from payments for services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month af ter the payment due date. These credits may be free ly granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to the pres- entation of the relevant proof of the execution of the commercial transaction or the provi- s ion of the service, as we ll as the payment due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 277 The granting of f inanc ial credits requires the prior authorization of the MSMEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MSMEF. These facilities may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be transferred f rom abroad by an authorized intermediary, but they must be reported to the Directorate of the Treasury. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents The g ran t ing of these fac i l i t ies requ i res the prior authorization of the MSMEF. To residents from nonresidents The regu la t ions govern ing f inanc ial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Prior MSMEF approval is required. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized inter- mediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, inc lud ing the ir transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be free ly transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MSMEF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MSMEF. If the reinvestment has not been author- ized, the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion must be repatriated within one month through an au- thorized intermediary. Real estate inves tment abroad by a resident is subject to prior approval by the MSMEF. The investor must subm it a wr i t ten request ind ica t ing the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a for- eign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital transactions between residents and nonresidents must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized bank, unless prior authorization is ob- tained from the MSMEF. These transac t ions requ i re prior MSMEF authorization. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation w i thout first being licensed and inc luded in the l ist of f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. To residents from nonresidents These t ransac t ions are permitted freely, bu t, for statistical purposes, they must be reported to the MSMEF when they are contracted and repaid. G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inhe r i tances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other operations require prior authorization of the MSMEF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 COTE D'lVOIRE Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MSMEF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Amounts in excess may be transferred with MSMEF authorization. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be re- ported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions are free, but are subject to prior authorization by the MSMEF and the BCEAO in the case of loans, financial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or purchases of foreign currency- denominated securities issued in Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization by the MSMEF with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the MSMEF if their issuance or sale in WAEMU member countries has not been authorized by the RCPSFM. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MSMEF with the approval of the BCEAO. The regulations governing foreign investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian kuna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the foreign exchange market. The Croatian National Bank (CNB) may set intervention exchange rates, which it applies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market for leveling undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CNB has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a limited forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions The regulations governing capital transactions in foreign currencies apply. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Yes. Yes. Yes. This is allowed only in specific cases, Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Operative There is an arrangement with Italy that applies only between certain districts. Administration of control The CNB formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations. Companies w ish ing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commer- cial courts. Imports and exports are subject to exchange controls to prevent fraudulent and fictitious imports and to facilitate enforcement of existing restrictions on certain capital flows. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 CROATIA In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on certain financial transactions with Iraq and the Taliban and on transactions relating to known terrorists groups. Yes. Exports of unprocessed gold and gold coins by producers of gold or by authorized com- mercial banks are subject to the approval of the CNB. Imports of gold are also subject to CNB approval. Imports and exports of monetary and nonmonetary gold (including gold in unwrought, sem imanufac tured, powder form, or plated with platinum; gold bars, rods, wires, and sec- tions; gold plates; and gold sheets and strips exceeding 0.15 mm in thickness, excluding any backing) are subject to approval of the Ministry of Economy (MOE). As a measure against money laundering, kuna or foreign exchange cash transactions ex- ceeding HRK 40,000 or its equivalent must be reported to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. The exportation of domestic and foreign currency in cash or checks must be declared to customs. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is restricted to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be exported with special permission from the CNB. Resident natural persons may take abroad up to the equivalent of €511 (prior to Janu- ary 1, 2002, DM 1,000). An additional amount up to the equivalent of €1,022 (prior to Janua ry 1, 2002, DM 2,000) may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. The CNB may allow h igher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be imported with special permission from the CNB. Resident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the CNB has the authority to allow resident juridical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and to meet the requirements of regular foreign trade activities abroad. Effective February 13, 2002, the law includes specific provisions for resident ju- ridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to hedge against risks arising from regular foreign trade activities abroad, and to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the CNB. Effective April 10, 2002, the purpose of the funds no longer needs to be declared. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. n.r. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents may convert domestic currency in to foreign currency w i thout restriction. Prior to Ap r il 10, 2002, the purpose of the conversion had to be declared. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts CROATIA 281 Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad by converting domestic currency. As a measure against money laundering, nonresi- dent juridical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 a month without special permission from the CNB. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may withdraw up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000 a month from their deposit accounts. Larger amounts may be withdrawn with CNB permission. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with f u l ly licensed banks in Croatia. A decision has been published regarding the documentation required for opening foreign exchange and domestic currency accounts by nonresidents. These accounts may be opened with the proceeds from sales of goods and services; foreign exchange transferred from abroad and converted into domestic currency; profits earned on invested capital; proceeds from sales of stock or shares; and proceeds from the liquidation of investments. Nonres ident persons may withdraw in cash up to HRK 15,000 a month from the ir deposit accounts. Convertible in to fore ign currency Foreign exchange may be purchased w i th funds held in these accounts without restriction. Blocked accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (natural persons) of the former R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia, blocked since 1992, have been replaced by claims on the Croatian government. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Advance payments and down payments for imports are permitted under certain circumstances. Imports are subject to exchange controls. An invoice or agreement is required for transfers. There are no import quotas, although the trade law allows for such quotas in principle, un- der cond i t ions envisaged by WTO ru les. All imports are free from licensing requirements except for a list of products whose importation is controlled by international agreement for statistical reasons (such as, arms, gold, illegal drugs, and narcotics), and a small number of other products (notably iron tubes and bars and fertilizers —except for those from WTO members). Imports are not limited on the basis of quantity or value, except as stated in relevant international conventions. Licenses are issued on a case-by-case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of industrial products are subject to customs tariffs of up to 16.4%. For a number of agr icu l tural and food products, compound duties (ad valorem plus a specific customs du ty) are applied. The max imum ad valorem du ty is 61% and, where a compound duty is app l ied, the max imum ad valorem component is 15%. The exemption for duty-free imports by trave lers is HRK 300. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tar iffs and taxes (VAT 22%) are applied. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the equ iva lent of HRK 5,000 are subject to a simplified customs procedure with a unified tariff rate of 10%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are ap- plied. Re tu rn ing c i t izens who have resided abroad for at least five years without interrup- t ion may import household e f fec ts that were in use for at least 12 months, as well as goods for pr iva te bus iness purposes —subject to customs approval —without paying customs tar- i f fs or taxes. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment pur- poses are exempt from import duties. Imports under special customs procedures, such as temporary imports and goods to be processed under customs surveillance, are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 CROATIA Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in fu ll within 150 days of the date of exportation. This period may be extended for 60 days with permission from the CNB. If payment terms in excess of 150 days have been agreed to with foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be registered with the CNB. Export proceeds from the countries of the CIS must be repatriated within 180 days, with the possibility of a further 60-day extension, subject to the approval of the CNB. No. Yes. Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be ob- tained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects). No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the regulations governing exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, except in central bank short-term securities in the primary market. In general, outward investment in capital and money market securities is not allowed for either natural or juridical persons, except for banks, investment funds, and pension funds. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. n.r. Purchase abroad by residents There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pension funds. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. n.r. Purchase abroad by residents There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pension funds. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing financial credits apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Only purchases in the primary market are restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 283 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing financial credits apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. n.r. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.r. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents n.r. n.r. Purchases for the purpose of hedging against risks arising from regular foreign trade activi- ties are permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.r. Controls on credit operations Foreign credit operations must be registered with the CNB. Commercial credits For statistical purposes only, such transactions have to be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident juridical persons may extend financial credits only to nonresident juridical persons in which they have the majority of voting rights. To residents from nonresidents Resident juridical persons may obtain financial credits from abroad only for undertaking activities for which they are registered. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Resident juridical persons may issue guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities only for undertaking activities for which they are registered. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Foreign direct investment must be registered with the CNB for statistical purposes. Outward direct investment Natural persons may make foreign direct investments abroad, subject to approval of the CNB. Foreign direct investment abroad by juridical persons is not restricted under certain circumstances, but must be registered with the MOE within 30 days from the signing of the contract. Inward direct investment Investments must be registered with the commercial courts. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, including tax payments. A natural person may not transfer capital abroad for the purpose of buying real estate. Ju- ridical persons may buy real estate abroad for the purpose of foreign direct investment. Subject to the permission of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the prior opinion of the Minister of Justice, foreign natural and juridical persons may, unless otherwise determined by law or under the condition of reciprocity, acquire the ownership of real estate in Croatia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 CROATIA Controls on personal capital transactions Loans For statistical purposes only, these transactions must be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents Na tural persons may not grant credits to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Resident natural persons are required to use foreign financial credits through the authorized domestic banks. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Cash gifts and endowments greater than the equivalent of €1,533 (prior to January 1, 2002, DM 3,000) must be approved by the CNB. Transfer abroad by emigrants The approval of the CNB is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Domestic commercial banks may not provide foreign exchange credits to resident natural persons. Domestic commercial banks may provide foreign exchange loans to resident ju- ridical persons w i thout restrictions. Deposits denominated in domestic and foreign exchange are subject to a reserve require- ment of 19%. The calculation period follows the calendar month, while the maintenance period also lasts a month, but begins from the eighth of the calendar month to the seventh of the fo l low ing month. Forty percent of the required reserves must be deposited in a spe- cial account w i th the CNB. The deposited kuna component of required reserves is remuner- ated at 1.75% (prior to April 24, 2002, 2.0%); effective January 29, 2003, this was further reduced to 1.5%, wh i le the remuneration of the foreign exchange component is related to the average interest rate earned on the CNB's placements abroad. Twenty-five percent of the calculated foreign exchange reserve requirement is included in the calculated kuna re- serve requ irement and is allocated in kuna. Liquid asset requirements Thirty-five percent of foreign exchange liabilities must be covered by short-term foreign exchange assets with a maturity of less than three months. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it on open position in foreign exchange is 20% of a bank's regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on inves tment por tfo l io held abroad A law on obligatory and voluntary pension funds is in effect. Investment funds may not invest more than 5% of the value of the fund in the securities of a single issuer. However, this limit may be raised to 10%, provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addition, investment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer, but only if the total face value of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face value of all the bonds of the same issuer and if they are in circulation. For purposes of determining this limit, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one-half of their face value. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident accounts CROATIA 285 Changes During 2002 February 13. Resident juridical persons were permitted to maintain accounts with banks abroad for purposes of construction of capital projects abroad and of hedging against risks arising from ordinary trade activities abroad. April 10. The amendments to the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions came into force, liberalizing foreign exchange opera- tions in the country, and permitted (1) domestic juridical persons to purchase foreign ex- change for the purpose of depositing it in their foreign exchange accounts without declara- tion of the purpose of funds, and (2) foreign exchange conversions to cover payments abroad without declaration of the purpose of the conversion. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 24. The ratio of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was reduced to 1.75% from 2.0%. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 29. The ratio of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required re- serves was reduced to 1.5% from 1.75%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The Cyprus pound is pegged to the euro within margins of ±15% around the central rate of €1.7086 per £C 1. Subject to certain limitations, including a limit on spreads between buy- ing and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) monitors the foreign exchange rates and may intervene to safeguard the smooth functioning of the market and the stability of the currency. The CBC is also responsible for organizing the daily fixing session with the commercial banks, at which the official foreign exchange rates ("fixing exchange rates") for the pound are determined. No. No. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated with their customers. Forward foreign exchange contracts may be utilized by anyone who has entered into a contractual agreement. The forward cover may be extended to any period, provided it does not exceed the duration of the underlying obligation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no restrictions on contracts between residents that are denominated in foreign currency. Actual payments between residents in foreign currency are usually permitted when the residents involved maintain foreign currency accounts. No. Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation with authorized dealers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for most bona fide transactions. In the context of harmonization with the EU, a draft law on the abolition of exchange control restrictions has been prepared by the CBC. Although restrictions imposed against Serbia and Montenegro have been lifted, some bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Serbia remain frozen (these balances were maintained with a Serbian bank that was placed under liquidation in June 2002; the issue is being dealt with by the liquidators in cooperation with the appropriate authorities). Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, nongovernmental forces in Sierra Leone, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears No. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 287 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bullion at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bullion requires the permission of the CBC. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 1,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. In cases where declarations are not made, nonresidents may export up to £C 1,000 in Cypriot or the equivalent in foreign banknotes. In addition, nonresidents may export the full amount of refunded VAT in Cypriot banknotes. Authorized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks in ex- change for foreign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from authorized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival, as well as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds or in exchange for Cypriot banknotes emanating from conversion of foreign exchange. Nonresidents entering Cyprus are advised to declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes to facilitate their reexport, deposit with authorized dealers, or use in purchasing immovable property or goods for export. For the purpose of preventing money laundering, authorized dealers are not allowed to accept deposits of foreign banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 without prior approval of the CBC. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Effective November 27, 2002, residents receiving or needing to make payments in foreign currency may hold foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Cypriot repatriates and individuals temporarily working abroad may also hold such accounts. With the excep- tion of repatriates, individuals temporarily working abroad, and professionals holding funds of their nonresident clients, residents are required to convert into Cyprus pounds balances at the end of each year that are not necessary to make payments in foreign exchange during the next three months. Previously, prior approval of the CBC was required for residents other than the following: manufacturers-exporters, residents engaged in transit or triangular trade, hoteliers, lawyers, accountants and stockholders, Cypriot repatriates, and individuals temporarily working abroad. Effective March 1, 2002, resident natural persons 18 years or older are allowed to deposit up to £C 20,000 a year in accounts with banks abroad or, alternatively, use part or all of the balance for portfolio investment abroad. Effective September 1, 2002, this limit was in- creased to £C 50,000. In addition, Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency ac- counts or external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad, all of their foreign currency holdings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident individuals temporarily working abroad may maintain their foreign currency earn- ings in foreign currency accounts, external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad. In all other cases, CBC approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 CYPRUS Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accoun ts are treated in the same way as foreign currency accounts held abroad. These accounts are designated as external accounts. They may be maintained by Cypriot repatriates and ind iv idua ls temporarily working abroad, and by professionals holding funds of the ir non res ident clients. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts These accoun ts may be credited w i th funds from external sources and authorized payments from residents. These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the rules governing foreign cur- rency accounts apply. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i remen ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses The CBC examines remittances to suppliers exceeding £C 100,000 (effective September 1, 2002; prior to th is date £C 50,000) for bona fide purposes. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents foreign exchange up to £C 50,000 (previously £C 20,000) for purchases and for the importation of goods in to Cyprus; for larger amounts, approval by the CBC is required. Documentation showing the bona f ide na ture of transactions must be presented to author- ized dealers. Import licenses are requ i red for a small number of goods, Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports are free of l icen s ing requ iremen ts. A license is required for a small number of goods prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism. Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Imports from Iraq are restricted in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be received w i t h in six mon ths of shipment un less an exception is granted by the CBC. In general, export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of exportation. Effective November 27, 2002, the requirement to con- vert 50% of export proceeds in to Cyprus pounds was abolished, and manufacturers import- ing the ir own raw materials or hav ing other payments in foreign currency are allowed to deposit export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers, subject to the requ i rement tha t, at the end of each year, balances that are not necessary for payments in foreign exchange du r ing the next three mon ths be converted into Cyprus pounds. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 289 Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas In line with EU regulations, exports of military equipment and goods that may be used for chemical or biological weapons, as well as nuclear-related products (including dual- use products), are subject to licensing for reasons of preserving international peace and security. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Effective September 1, 2002, authorized dealers may make payments for some invisible transactions up to a limit of £C 500,000 in most cases without referring to the CBC. Indica- tive limits apply for certain transactions. Payments above these limits require CBC ap- proval, which is readily granted for bona fide transactions. Commissions in excess of 10% of the value of exported goods and services require CBC approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentation showing the bona fide nature of the transactions is generally required. Investment-related payments Profits and dividends, interest, and rent from approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad on presentation of appropriate documentation. Effective September 1, 2002, the requirement of prior approval of the CBC for the transfer of investment income earned by nonresidents was abolished. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentation showing the bona fide nature of the transactions is generally required. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval The indicative limit for tourist travel is £C 3,000 a person a trip. However, if the length of stay abroad does not exceed five days, the limit is £C 1,000. The CBC approves applica- tions for higher amounts to cover bona fide expenses without limitation. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions and for other personal payments ex- ceeding the quantitative or indicative limits. Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Effective August 12, 2002, banks may provide up to £C 50,000 (previously, effective May 21, 2002, £C 20,000; and prior to this date, £C 5,000) for medical expenses abroad. Unlimited additional amounts are provided with the approval of the CBC. For study abroad, there are no limits on payments of tuition fees, but an indicative limit of £C 12,000 applies for living expenses. Amounts above this limit are approved by the CBC for bona fide living expenses. Effec t ive January 2, 2002, wages earned by legally employed nonresidents in Cyprus may be transferred abroad without any quantitative restriction through authorized dealers (pre- viously, these transfers were generally limited to 80% of the monthly remuneration, or £C 400, whichever was larger). In order to establish the bona fide nature of the transaction, foreign workers must present authorized dealers with their employment permit and contract of employment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Authorized dealers may issue credit or debit cards valid abroad to any resident. Effective January 2, 2002, the l im it on cash withdrawals is £C 1,000 a trip (previously £C 300). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 Other payments CYPRUS Authorized dealers may effect payments for royalties and license fees in accordance with relevant agreements. They may also carry out payments for subscription/membership fees, consulting/legal fees, and other services, up to £C 500,000. For larger amounts, CBC ap- proval is required and is granted in bona fide cases. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Generally, receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. However, residents expecting to make payments may deposit proceeds from invisibles in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized dealers, subject to the requirement that at the end of each year, bal- ances that are not necessary for payments in foreign currency during the next three months must be converted into Cyprus pounds. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions Yes. Yes. The acquisition of shares of banks listed on the Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE) is subject to a ceiling of 50% of each bank's issued capital. The acquisition of shares of other public companies, except banks, by natural or juridical persons from EU member states is free, while the aggregate participation in the share capi- tal of such companies by other nonresident persons is subject to a 49% limit. Public companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transactions with nonresidents without reference to the CBC, subject to the limit described above. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE (currently none is listed on the CSE), but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Authorized dealers are allowed to approve applications by nonresidents for transfer abroad of proceeds from sales of securities quoted on the CSE up to £C 500,000 without reference to the CBC. Ap- plications for greater amounts must be referred to the CBC. Effective September 1, 2002, resident natural persons 18 years or older may transfer abroad up to £C 50,000 a year to purchase securities listed on stock exchanges listed in EU coun- tries or units of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities that fu l f i ll EU requirements (previously, effective March 1, 2002, £C 20,000). Alternatively, part or all of this amount may be deposited in accounts with foreign banks or used to pay for life insurance or other investment plans offered by insurance companies. Prior to March 21, 2002, outward portfolio investment was permitted for the following residents: banks and institutional investors (insurance companies and investment companies registered on the CSE); Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad; and resident employ- ees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan of- fered by their employers. Portfolio investment by other residents was subject to CBC approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the ceilings described above for purchases by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 291 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase bonds admitted to the CSE, including bonds issued by public companies and government bonds denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE (currently no such securities are listed on the CSE), but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of debt securities abroad by residents is generally subject to the same rules as the purchase of shares or other securities of a participating nature. For example, natural persons may transfer abroad a maximum of £C 50,000 a year to purchase either debt or equity securities listed on stock exchanges in EU countries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase treasury bills denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is required for residents to purchase such instruments. Purchase abroad by residents Banks and institutional investors may acquire money market instruments within prescribed limits. Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad may also purchase money market instruments abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Other residents may purchase these instruments only if they are listed on stock exchanges in EU countries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Acquisition of securities issued by public investment companies in Cyprus is free for natu- ral and juridical persons from EU member countries and is subject to a ceiling of 49% for other nonresident persons. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not gener- ally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of these instruments by residents are subject to the regulations that govern pur- chases of capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Credits with a maturity of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely provided by authorized dealers. Effective September 1, 2002, controls on short-term lending in foreign currencies to nonresidents were eliminated. Other credits require ap- proval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Effective September 1, 2002, the maximum limit of 200 days on the maturity of commer- cial credits for import of goods into Cyprus was abolished. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents other than authorized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits without the approval of the CBC. Effective September 1, 2002, controls on short-term lending in for- eign currencies to nonresidents were eliminated. To residents from nonresidents Short-term borrowing is subject to approval by the CBC. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees without reference to the CBC in certain cases, including tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the refund of advance payments, and guarantees ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 CYPRUS in respect to any other transactions where an immediate payment to the nonresident benef i- ciary could be made under the existing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior ap- proval of the CBC is required. The transfer of capital abroad may be effected on presentation of documentation showing the bona f ide na tu re of the transaction. However, investment projects necessitating the transfer of foreign exchange in excess of £C 5 m i l l ion a year (effective September 1, 2002) must be transferred to the CBC, which reserves the right to postpone the transfer of foreign exchange if it deems it necessary. Inward direct investment from EU member countries is free, except in certain sectors that are governed by specific restrictive legislation, i.e., tertiary education, electricity, and postal services (no foreign participation is allowed); radio and television stations (participation by EU investors is subject to a l im it of 25% a person, provided total EU participation in a company does not exceed 49%, wh i le a non-EU investor may own up to 5% of the share capital, subject to approval of the Council of Ministers); travel offices (license to establish and operate is granted on ly to Cypriot natural or juridical persons); and publication of newspapers and magazines (subject to authorization by the Minister of the Interior). Inward direct investments from non-EU countries are subject to the above controls, as well as to others related to max imum percentage participation and m in imum equ i ty capital. Cypriot businesses may be majority-owned by non-EU residents, provided that their equity capital exceeds the required m in imum of that particular sector. For example, companies engaged in wholesale retail trade may be 100% owned by non-EU residents, provided their equity capital is not less than £C 300,000. Effec t ive December 31, 2002, licenses are granted to private investors (resident or nonresi- dent) providing telecommunications services in Cyprus. Permission of the CBC for the repatriation of the proceeds of sale or liquidation of ap- proved investments ( in c lud ing capital gains) is readily granted at any t ime after payment of taxes. Effec t ive January 2, 2002, each resident fam i ly may transfer abroad up to £C 200,000 to acquire a secondary residence abroad (previously, the l im it was £C 100,000). In accordance with the Immovable Property Acqu is i t ion (Aliens) Law, the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus by nonresidents is subject to the approval of the District Officer —and the purchase must be made w i th foreign exchange (acquisition of immovable property by inheritance is not subject to these requirements). When the real estate con- cerned exceeds two donums (one donum = 1,338 m2), approval is granted only in the fol- low ing cases: (1) a pr imary or secondary residence not exceeding three donums; (2) profes- sional or commercial premises; or (3) premises for industry sectors deemed beneficial to the Cypriot economy. Nonres iden ts of Cypriot origin do not need to obtain the approval of the District Officer. Proceeds are transferable abroad w i thout l im i ta t ion, if the real estate was acquired with foreign exchange; otherwise the proceeds of the sale are transferable at the rate of £C 1 m i l l ion or one-third of the total amount, whichever is larger, a calendar year. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These transactions requ ire the prior approval of the CBC. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inhe r i tance s, and legacies By residents to nonresidents E f fec t ive September 1, 2002, resident parents may grant any amount of gifts or endow- ments to each of the ir nonresident children at the rate of £C 1 m i l l ion or one-third of the requested amount, whichever is larger, a year with proper documentation (previously such gifts were subject to a l im it of £C 50,000). Also effective th is date, prior approval of the CBC is required for other gifts or endow- ments exceeding £C 2,000 every six months (previously, effective January 1, 2002, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants CYPRUS 293 £C 1,000; and prior to this date, £C 500) every six months, while no prior approval is re- quired for the transfer of funds inherited from residents by nonresidents. All funds inherited by nonresidents are transferable abroad at the rate of £C 1 million or one-third of the total amount, whichever is larger, a year, provided appropriate documentation is submitted to authorized dealers. In cases where the immigrant debtor does not maintain sufficient balances in foreign cur- rency or external accounts to repay a debt abroad, approval of the CBC is granted for re- payment through local funds. At the time of departure, emigrants may transfer abroad up to £C 100,000 of their local funds. After their settlement abroad, they may transfer any remaining local funds during a maximum period of two years. In addition, emigrants who are Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were previously residents in other countries and decide to emigrate again from Cyprus) may transfer abroad at the time of emigration all of their funds that they previously transferred into Cyprus and converted into local funds. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval from the CBC is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized dealers are allowed to maintain working balances with foreign banks within limits prescribed by the CBC, as well as deposits abroad held as cover for their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are allowed to grant loans in foreign currencies with a maturity of up to 10 years to nonresidents, subject to the liquid asset requirements prescribed by the CBC for prudential reasons. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers are allowed to lend any amount in local currency to nonresidents to f inance their activities in Cyprus, provided the loan proceeds are not converted into foreign currency. Such transactions do not require referral to the CBC. Authorized dealers may grant medium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to resi- dents without referring to the CBC (subject to the liquid asset requirements prescribed by the CBC for prudential reasons). For short-term lending to residents, approval of the CBC is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies, held either by nonresi- dents or by residents, are d ifferent from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements A m in imum reserve requ irement of 6.5% applies only to deposits in Cyprus pounds. Effective March 1, 2003, liquid assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 75% of deposit liabilities in foreign currencies must be maintained (previously, effective September 1, 2002, the ratio was increased to 70%; and prior to this date, 60%). For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed liquidity ratio. However, the liquidity positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for prudential purposes. Credit controls Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresidents' deposit accounts in foreign exchange or in domestic currency are not treated d ifferen t ly from deposit accounts of residents. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks may acquire assets abroad (e.g., securities issued by solvent foreign governments or government-guaranteed securities) in accordance with the CBC directive establishing the framework w i th in which banks may utilize the funds derived from foreign currency depos- its from customers. Banks may also undertake direct investment abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 CYPRUS In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Nonresidents may acquire up to 50% of the share capital of resident banks listed on the CSE. The acquisition of 10% or more of a bank's share capital by any resident or nonresi- dent person, either alone or with any associates, is subject to prior approval of the CBC. The net open/uncovered overnight (intraday) position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies are 3% (5%) and 6% (8%), respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base. Higher amounts require prior CBC permission. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurance companies may invest abroad up to 25% of their trust fund, in securities quoted on a number of foreign stock exchanges specified in the relevant directives issued by the Ministry of Finance. Public investment companies may also invest abroad in securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges up to 50% of their capital and reserves (net worth), or £C 20 million, whichever is less. The CBC approves applications by other institutional investors on a case-by-case basis. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Cyprus Stock Exchange and Securities Laws and the regulations issued under these laws apply to transactions by nonresidents and residents in a nondiscriminating manner. Resident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2002 March L Resident natural persons 18 years or older were allowed to deposit up to £C 20,000 a year in accounts with banks abroad or, alternatively, use part or all of the bal- ance for portfolio investment abroad. September L The limit on the amount that resident natural persons may transfer abroad for maintaining deposits with banks abroad or for portfolio investments abroad was raised to £C 50,000 a year from £C 20,000. November 27. Authorized dealers were allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts in the name of any resident receiving and needing to make payments in foreign currency as well as Cypriot repatriates and individuals temporarily working abroad. With the exception of repatriates, individuals temporarily working abroad, and professionals holding funds of their nonresident clients, residents are required to convert into Cyprus pounds balances at the end of each year that are not necessary to make payments in foreign exchange during the next three months. Previously, prior approval of the CBC was required for residents other than the following: manufacturers-exporters, residents engaged in transit or triangular trade, hoteliers, lawyers, accountants and stockholders, Cypriot repatriates, and individuals temporarily working abroad. September L The limit on remittances to foreign suppliers for advance payments, without reference to the CBC, was increased to £C 100,000 from £C 50,000, while the limit on the amount that departing residents may export for import payments abroad was increased to £C 50,000 from £C 20,000. November 27. The obligation of manufacturers-exporters to convert a minimum of 50% of export proceeds into Cyprus pounds was abolished, provided that at the end of each year, any foreign exchange that is not necessary for payments in foreign currency during the next three months is converted into Cyprus pounds. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 2. The limit on credit card cash withdrawals abroad was increased to £C 1,000 a trip from £C 300. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 295 January 2. Wages earned by legally employed nonresidents in Cyprus were allowed to be transferred abroad w i thout restriction (other than documentary requirements) through au- thorized dealers (previously, these transfers were generally limited to 80% of the monthly remuneration, or £C 400, whichever was larger). May 21. The indicative limit for medical expenses abroad was raised to £C 20,000 from £C 5,000. August 12. The indicative limit for medical expenses abroad was raised to £C 50,000. September 1. The requirement of prior approval of the CBC for the transfer of investment income earned by nonresidents was abolished, and the limit on the amount of payments for other services (consulting/legal fees, advertisement, etc.) that may be carried out through authorized dealers without referring to the CBC was raised to £C 500,000 from £C 100,000. March 1. Resident natural persons 18 years or older were allowed to transfer abroad up to £C 20,000 a year to purchase securities listed on stock exchanges in EU member countries or units of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities that f u l f i ll EU requirements. Alternatively, part or all of this amount may be deposited in accounts with banks abroad. Prior to this date, outward portfolio investment was permitted for the follow- ing residents: banks and institutional investors (specifically, insurance companies and in- vestment companies registered on the CSE); Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad; and resident employees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered by their employers. Portfolio investment by other residents was subject to CBC approval. September L The aforementioned limit on transfers by resident natural persons for portfolio investments abroad or for maintaining deposits with banks abroad was raised to £C 50,000 a year from £C 20,000. September I. The maximum limit of 200 days on the maturity of commercial credits for import of goods to Cyprus was abolished. September 1. Controls on short-term lend ing in foreign currencies to nonresidents were eliminated. September I. Administrative procedures for outward direct investments were simplified. Direct investment projects no longer have to be referred to the CBC for ver if ica t ion of genuineness prior to the transfer of funds through authorized dealers, unless the required amount exceeds £C 5 million a year. December 31. The legal monopoly status of the Cyprus Telecommunications Authority (a government-owned corporation) was abolished. Henceforth, private investors (resident or nonresident) may be granted licenses to provide telecommunications services in Cyprus. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on real estate transactions January 2. The maximum amount that each resident family was allowed to transfer to ac- qu ire a secondary residence abroad was increased to £C 200,000 from £C 100,000. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Resident parents were allowed to grant g i f ts or endowments of up to £C 50,000 to each of their nonresident children. Also, the limit on other gifts by residents to nonresi- dents was increased to £C 1,000 every six months from £C 500 every six months. September L The l im it of £C 50,000 on the amount of g if ts granted by resident parents to the ir nonresident children was abolished. Henceforth, any gift amount is transferable abroad at the rate of £C 1 million or one-third of the requested amount, whichever is larger, a year, with proper documentation. The limit on other g if ts by residents to nonresidents was increased to £C 2,000 every six months from £C 1,000, with prior approval of the CBC. September 1. Prudential rules on the framework within which banks may utilize the funds derived from foreign currency deposits from customers were amended by a new directive of the CBC. Under the new directive, the liquid asset requirement was set at 70% of total foreign currency deposits (previously, the liquid asset ratio was 60%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 CYPRUS Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 1. The liquid asset requirement for deposits in foreign currencies was increased to 75% of total deposit liabilities in foreign currencies from 70%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the koruna is determined by supply and demand in the foreign ex- change market. The Czech National Bank (CNB) may intervene in the foreign exchange market in order to smooth large intraday volatility swings of the euro/koruna rate. The CNB publishes daily rates of some selected currencies against the koruna for customs and ac- coun t ing purposes. Commercial banks set the ir own exchange rate with no limitation. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The MOF and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations, in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the MOF exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budg- etary organizations, state funds, and all types of credits being extended to or accepted by the Czech Republic. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghanistan and Serbia and Montenegro. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Effective January 1, 2002, the res tr ic t ion a l low ing only authorized agents (generally banks, with some exceptions) to trade in gold bullion was lifted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting requirements on exports and imports exceeding CZK 350,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 CZECH REPUBLIC Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghanistan and Serbia and Montenegro. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Automatic import licenses are required for some agricultural and food products, tobacco and tobacco products, raw materials, fuels and mineral oils, chemical products and products of similar industries, used textile products, toxic substances, auxiliary chemical substances, certain seeds and plants, pharmaceutical products, certain steel products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic import licenses are required for sugar from the Slovak Republic and black coal from Ukraine and Poland. All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 29.4% for industrial goods and up to 125% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Under a customs union agreement, imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties. Imports from developing countries are granted preferences. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Automatic export licenses are required for some raw materials, raw leathers; wood and wooden products; precious and common metals; iron and steel products (when exported to the EU and the United States); toxic substances; auxiliary chemical substances and pre- cursors; pharmaceutical products; and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic export licenses are required for textile goods exported to Canada and the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 299 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective January 1, 2002, the repatriation requ irement for proceeds from invisible transac- tions and current transfers was eliminated. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature in the air transport sector is regulated. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. There are controls on investment by nonresidents in the air transport sector. In order to register an a i rc ra f t, to obtain a license to operate an air transportation enterprise as a Czech company, or to obtain a Czech air operating certificate, the air carrier must be a juridical person domiciled in the Czech Republic, Czech residents must hold at least 51% of the capital and voting rights, and Czech residents must have an effec t ive inf luence on the man- agement and fu ll control of the activities of the enterprise. To carry out air taxi transport services, it is only necessary to be a resident of the Czech Republic. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Repub l ic may acquire real estate only in the fo l low ing cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the d ip loma t ic representation of a foreign coun- try under the terms of reciprocity; (3) th rough unapportioned coownership of a married coup le of wh ich on ly one is a nonresident, or where a nonres ident acquires property from a husband, w i fe, parents, or grandparents; (4) th rough the exchange of domestic real estate owned by the nonresident for other domestic real estate, the normal price of which does not exceed the normal price of the former real estate; (5) if the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned coownership of real estate; (6) if it is a construction bu i lt by a non- resident on his own land; and (7) under the terms exp l ic i t ly stipulated by several acts on re s t i tu t ion and pr iva t iza t ion. Prior to January 1, 2002, branches of nonresident corporations could not purchase real estate. Effec t ive that date, nonresident legal entities that have an enterprise or branch and are authorized to conduct business in the Czech Republic may acquire the ownership rights to real estate, except in the agricultural and forestry sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 CZECH REPUBLIC Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open fore ign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange limits are applied on both on- and off-balance sheet exposures; they are 20% of the capital for all currencies and 15% for open koruna positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Credit unions, insurance companies, and pension funds may place their assets abroad, sub- ject to specific prudential regulations. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad L im i ts (min .) on inves tment por tfo l io held locally Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January L The restriction allowing only authorized agents to trade in gold bullion, with some exceptions, was lifted. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers January L The repatriation requirement for proceeds from invisible transactions and cur- rent transfers was eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Nonresident corporations were allowed to purchase real estate locally, except in the agricultural and forestry sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Denmark participates in the ERM II and maintains the spot exchange rate between the Dan- ish krone and the euro w i th in margins of 2.25% above or below the central rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On April 9, 2002, the Danish authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze accounts belonging to the Taliban and members of terrorist groups. Persons or or- ganizations whose accounts are frozen will not be able to engage in any financial transac- tions through these accounts. No accounts were immediately frozen, however. These meas- ures have been taken in accordance w i th the relevant UN and EU resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Denmark maintains exchange restrictions against Haiti, Iraq, Serbia and Montenegro, and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 DENMARK Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea require a license. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Repub l ic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongo- lia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Licenses with quotas Licenses are requ ired for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of certain metals in waste or scrap form. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents DENMARK 303 Capital Transactions Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Purchases are prohibited, except in the case of acquisitions by (1) persons who were for- merly residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU nationals working in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) non-EU nationals who either are in possession of a valid residence permit or are entitled to stay in Denmark without such a permit for residential or active business purposes. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The Consolidated Act contains prudential regulations covering capital adequacy, liquidity, and large exposures. These regulations follow the relevant EU directives. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents A 60% limit applies to holdings of foreign equity securities (denominated in euro) by pri- vate insurance companies and pension funds. The limit is 20% for holdings in other currencies. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies are regulated by the "balance principle," which determines that con- sistency must be ensured between assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 9. The Danish authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze ac- counts belonging to the Taliban and members of terrorist groups. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of D j ibou ti is the D j ibou ti franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Currency board arrangement The D j ibou ti franc is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1. The o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the dollar are set by local banks and money changers on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar in international markets. There is coverage of the f u ll issue of Djibouti francs in foreign exchange. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. No. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Off ic ial B i la te ral agreements have been reached with several Paris Club creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Resident Accounts 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 305 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Advance import deposits are permitted up to a certain percentage of the value of imports. Yes. Yes. Yes. Formal customs duties are not imposed on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax on imports at three rates (8%, 20%, and 33%). Certain products, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, qat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 DJIBOUTI Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. There are controls on all credit transactions of residents with nonresidents, including trans- actions in the form of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities within the limits established by the banking regulations for the purpose of complying with the prudential standard on customer risk. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 307 Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a matching requirement with respect to both the amount of the transaction and the currency of denomination, as well as with respect to maturity and interest rate. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Currency The currency of Dom in ica is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other coun tr ies may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. Dom in ica is a member of the CARICOM. As a member of the CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies but requires that any individual foreign currency transaction in excess of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Exchange controls are not applied to au- thor ized import payments. The M in i s t ry of Trade administers import and export arrange- ments and controls. International security restrictions Trade with Iraq is proh ib i ted. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents are permitted to acqu ire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only, Small quan t i t ies of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the MOF. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 309 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of Eastern Caribbean dollar notes and coins outside the ECCB area is lim- ited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts are normally confined to major exporters and may only be credited with foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Approval, however, is required to hold these accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible in to foreign currency For any s ing le transaction in excess of EC$250,000, approval from the MOF is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a commercial bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports from Iraq are prohibited. Imports of specified goods o r ig ina t ing f rom non-OECS countries, Belize, and CARICOM countries requ i re a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of the CARICOM (Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago) also requ ire a license. Certain goods require a license for public health or safety reasons. There are certain quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of beverages, f lou r, and margarine; quotas are allocated to trad i t ional importers based on the ir historical market shares. Most rates are ad valorem. Dominica applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. The max imum tar iff on most non-CARICOM goods is 20%. Lower rates apply to machinery (zero to 15%) and some essential foodstuffs (10% to 15%), while higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1% customs service charge. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 DOMINICA State import monopoly Bulk imports of sugar and rice are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account to which the proceeds may be credited. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of pro- tected plant and animal species to any destination. Yes. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between ECS0.55 and EC$0.60 a pound; if the export price ex- ceeds EC$0.60 a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign currency in amounts up to EC$250,000. Amounts over this limit require approval by the MOF, which is generally granted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on payments for family maintenance and alimony, medical expenses, remittances of pensions, and studies. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests apply to payments of medical expenses. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Earnings of foreign workers may be remitted after settlement of all taxes and other public liabilities. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test DOMINICA 311 The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is EC$250,000 a transaction. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment All outward transfers of capital in excess of EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. All credit operations by residents to nonresidents require MOF approval. Direct investments abroad exceeding EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require approval by the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Nonresidents are generally required to have an alien landholding license to hold shares in private and public companies and to hold property. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 DOMINICA Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) MOF approval is required, Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange These transactions are generally not permitted. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican peso. In addition to the o f f ic ial exchange rate set by the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic (CBDR), the market exchange rate reflects commercial banks' foreign exchange transac- t ions w i th the pub l ic. There is also an extrabank market rate determined by foreign ex- change transactions with exchange houses. The CBDR occasionally intervenes in the market via the commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is set daily by the CBRD as a weighted aver- age of the previous week's rate at commercial banks and exchange houses. A foreign ex- change desk has been created to manage purchases and sales of foreign exchange for the CBDR through auctions, although this system is used only occasionally. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and U ruguay may be made th rough two accounts that were established under reciprocal credit agree- ments w i th in the framework of the LAI A. Imports (debits) and exports (credits) are re- corded in these accounts, and all payments must be invoiced in dollars. All other transac- tions must be expressed in domestic currency; however, transactions between residents and nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency. The following currencies are con- sidered convertible: the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the Danish krone, the Norwegian krone, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc, the pound sterling, and the U.S. do l lar. E f fec t ive November 21, 2002, contracts in foreign currency are legally binding, Yes. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements take place under reciprocal credit agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ch i le, Colombia, Ecuador, Mex ico, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela. Administration of control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CBDR. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000 or the equivalent. Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$ 100 in coins. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Natural and juridical persons may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dol- lars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. On November 21, 2002, the new Monetary and Financial Law came into effect, establish- ing an arrangement under which accounts denominated in Dominican pesos are convertible against other currencies. Economic agents may enter into transactions involving foreign currencies on any terms, as they freely negotiate in accordance with the general rules and regulations governing contracts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Natural and juridical persons may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dollars or in any other free ly convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Some payments for oil are transacted through the CBDR at the official exchange rate on behalf of the refinery REFIDOMSA (Refmeria Dominicana de Petroleo). All other imports must be transacted through the commercial banks and are only subject to verification of appropriate documentation, except for those into industrial free-trade zones. Positive list This list includes beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 315 Imports of live animals; seeds; plants; fru i ts; plant and animal products that are unhealthy, decomposing, or infected with germs or parasites; and substances harmful or injurious to human, plant, or animal health are prohibited. Imports of beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and refined sugar require licenses. There are five tariff rates: zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. A commission of 4.75% is charged on all imports, and it is collected by the General Directorate of Customs. There is also a temporary import system for the entry, free of import duties and taxes, of certain goods that are to be reexported within a maximum of 18 months of being processed, worked, or repaired. In addition, there is a zero rate for imports of inputs, machinery, and equipment to be used in the textile and agricultural sectors. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Yes. No. No. Export licenses With quotas Licenses are required for sugar and textile exports to the United States. Bananas are subject to quantitative restrictions in the EU, as are coffee and cocoa in the markets of signatories to the International Coffee and Cocoa Agreement. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign workers' wages Prior approval All invisible payments may be made free ly through commercial banks, subject to documen- tation requirements. Prior approval of the president of the Republic is required for the hiring of Haitian workers to harvest sugarcane. Other payments Technical assistance fees must be registered with the CBDR. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements While most exchange proceeds from invisibles may be sold on the interbank market, cer- tain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls, international credit card transactions, and foreign embassies' operations) must be surrendered to the CBDR. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on capital and money market instruments The transactions are regulated under the Law on the Securities Market and, effective Janu- ary 1, 2003, by the Superintendency of Securities. On capital market securities The local capital market is still emerging. Shares and bonds are not yet traded. Only the primary market's own operations are effected, with commercial paper denominated in do- mestic currency. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Prior CBDR approval is required. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Effec t ive November 21, 2002, banks and credit institutions may extend direct or indirect loans and guarantees to a single resident or nonresident individual or legal entity for up to 10% (previously 15%) of the ir paid-up capital and reserves, or up to 20% (previously 30%) of capital and reserves if such operations are secured with first-rank mortgages or real guarantees. External debt may be contracted directly by the central government, subject to congres- sional authorization. New loans by other public entities require authorization from the president of the Republic for their subsequent registration with the Monetary Board. Private external debt must be registered with the CBDR, except for foreign exchange advances on fu tu re trad i t ional exports, which require approval from the CBDR. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Commercial and fu l l-serv ice banks must request prior CBDR authorization to issue foreign currency guarantees, other than for trade operations. External short-term f inanc ing by banks authorized to offer f u ll service is limited to 20% of pa id-up capital and reserves. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effec t ive November 21, 2002, full-service banks and other credit institutions may invest up to 20% of their paid-up capital in branches, agencies, or representative offices abroad, as well as make equity investments in foreign financial institutions. Investments must be registered with the CBDR. Investment in the fo l low ing sectors is pro- h ib i ted: (1) disposal of toxic waste and of dangerous or radioactive substances not produced in the country; (2) activities that affect pub l ic health and the environment; and (3) produc- t ion of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 317 Banks authorized to offer fu ll services may obtain financing abroad of up to one year, sub- ject to a limit of 30% of their paid-up capital and reserves. Banks authorized to offer fu ll services may grant loans in dollars up to 100% of their for- eign exchange resources that are held in the form of saving or time deposits to the sectors exporting goods and services for the purpose of financing activities specific to their opera- tions and to the importing sectors for the purpose of covering payments abroad to acquire goods and services. Effec t ive November 21, 2002, the reserve requirement ratio is 20% (previously 10%) for both domestic and foreign currency deposits, but reserve balances in foreign currencies must be kept in first-tier banks. Effec t ive November 21, 2002, banks and credit institutions may extend direct or indirect loans and guarantees to a single resident or nonresident individual or legal entity for up to 10% (previously 45%) of their paid-up capital and reserves, and up to 20% (previously 30%) of capital and reserves, if such operations are secured with first-rank mortgages or real guarantees. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The net short or long positions of full-service banks are subject to exchange risk controls. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2002 November 21. Contracts in foreign currency were made legally binding. November 21. The Monetary and Financial Law No. 183-02 was promulgated, allowing accounts in Dominican pesos to be converted into other currencies. November 21. The maximum amount that banks and credit institutions may extend in direct or indirect loans was reduced to 10% of their paid-up capital and reserves (from 15%) or to 20% (from 30%), if secured with first-rank mortgages or real guarantees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on direct investment November 21. Full-service banks and other credit institutions may invest up to 20% of their paid-up capital in branches, agencies, or representative offices abroad, as well as make equity investments in foreign financial institutions. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 21. The reserve requirement for domestic and foreign currencies was increased to 20% from 10%. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The Superintendency of Securities began operations, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31, 1970. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar. The dollarization legislation provides for a lim- ited issue of domestic coins with small value to remain in circulation to facilitate small transactions and requires that they be fu l ly backed at all times by dollars. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar, which circulates freely. No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options, and transactions in other financial derivative instruments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Exchange proceeds from all countries, except for LAIA members, must be received in con- vertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. There are arrangements with Cuba and Hungary; balances are settled every four months. Payments between Ecuador and the other LAIA countries may be made within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE). Exports must be registered with the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exportation, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives may be carried out through the financial market. Private sector for- eign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Central Bank Board (CBB). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Arrears are maintained with respect to public and publicly guaranteed debt-service pay- ments to official creditors. Commercial banks under the control of the Deposit Insurance Agency (AGO) maintain external payments arrears on trade and interbank credit lines. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 ECUADOR Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. do l lar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency w i thout restriction. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i remen ts Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Prior import licenses are required for agricultural, medical, and psychotropic imports. In addition, Petroecuador (the state oil company) may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equipment dur ing emergencies. Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, used tires, and used clothes are prohibited, primar- ily to protect the environment and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also prohibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. Tariff rates for most goods are zero, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 35%. Automobiles are sub- ject to a 35% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. Variable tariffs under a price band system are applied to about 140 agricultural products. Under the agreement w i th the WTO, tariff rates for goods subject to price bands are bound at 45%. Discrimina- tory excise taxes are in place against a l im i ted number of goods, i n c l u d i ng automobiles, beer, l iquors, soft dr inks, and cigarettes. E f fec t ive November 1, 2002, ta r i f fs on a wide range of goods not produced in the Andean commun i ty were e l im ina ted. Effec t ive Decem- ber 1, 2002, safeguards against selected goods imported from the Andean Community as well as the additional tar iffs of 2% to 10% were also eliminated. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ECUADOR 321 Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities. However, export- ers may retain up to 15% from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of con- sular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not apply to ex- ports effected under authorized barter transactions or to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilateral payment agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of pay- ment. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished prod- ucts of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly surrendered. Receipts in for- eign exchange for petroleum exports are effected on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. In addition, exporters may deduct from their surrender requirements the cost of kraft paper and starch or inputs and raw materials imported under the "Industrial Deposits Temporary Admission" regime when exporters require cardboard boxes for packing that are built with kraft paper and starch. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Industriali- zation, Fisheries and Competitiveness, and must be registered with the CBE. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports do not require licenses, but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, fish, and semifinished cocoa products are sub- ject to minimum reference prices. All crude oil exports were subject to a tax of $0.5 a barrel. A fee of $ 1.02 a barrel has been modified by Petroecuador through a tariff table, based on the viscosity of the crude oil and the distance it is transported (in kilometers), and applied to crude oil exported through the pipeline. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these instruments. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 ECUADOR Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the CBB. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the CBB, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the CBB considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the CBE within 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Reserve requirements The reserve requirement for accounts denominated in dollars or foreign exchange is 4%. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments November L Tariffs on a wide range of goods not produced in the Andean community were eliminated. December L Safeguards against certain goods from the Andean community were elimi- nated. The additional tariffs of 2% to 10% were also eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article XIV Yes. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Arab Republic of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Prior to January 29, 2003, the Egyptian pound was pegged to the dollar. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) announced the central rate, and all foreign exchange trades by banks and foreign exchange bureaus had to take place within a ±3% range around this central rate. The CBE adjusted the central rate in light of market conditions. Effective January 13, 2002, the CBE's central rate was depreciated to LE 4.51 per $1 from LE 4.50 per $1. On January 29, 2003, in order to eliminate the market that had grown out of a tight hard currency supply, the pound was allowed to float. As a result, the exchange arrangement of Egypt was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. Authorized nonbank foreign exchange dealers may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes and traveler's checks) on their own account. These transac- tions are conducted in cash. However, nonbank authorized dealers are not permitted to deal in transfers into or out of the country; they must sell all working-day foreign currency sur- pluses in excess of their authorized operating balances to commercial banks. The spread between the CBE buying and selling rates for foreign exchange is about 0.5%. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transac- tions for their own account. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force, certain settlements are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the CBE. The balances of these accounts are minimal. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements with Sudan are made in accordance with the terms of the bilateral agreement. An account denominated in pounds sterling has been set up to liquidate debts owed to FSU countries under terminated bilateral payments arrangements. There is an inoperative agreement with Sudan. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Egypt is a member of the COMES A. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 EGYPT Administration of control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions w i th in the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On Apr il 7, 2002, the CBE notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze ac- counts and assets of listed persons and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Further, the au thor i t ies are es tab l ish ing the F inanc ial Intelligence Unit, which w i ll coordi- nate all issues related to money laundering and financial terrorism. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payments arrears There are limited technical payment arrears with certain non-Paris Club creditors. Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or customers' accounts, in pre- cious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out up to LE 1,000. On imports Domestic currency Persons arriving in Egypt may br ing in up to LE 1,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n .a. Balances may be converted through the foreign exchange market. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar ac- counts, foreign banknotes (conver t ib le currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 325 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Margin deposits for LCs opened by importers are 100 percent, and are payable in domestic currency. Most items may be imported freely. Products are classified into seven groups for customs purposes, with tariff rates ranging up to 40%, with several exceptions. Surcharges at rates of 2% and 3% apply to most imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held indefinitely abroad or in local free accounts. No. Capital Transactions Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls under the Foreign Exchange Law and Regulations on the issuing of securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in securities denominated in foreign cur- rencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange market may be used for transferring proceeds associated with the sale of both Egyptian securities and foreign securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 EGYPT Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval of the Capital Market Authority is required for issuing bonds. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Derivatives do not exist in the Egyptian market. No controls are applied if the maturity of the commercial credits is one year or less and if these credits are received by the private sector. Ministries, governmental administrations, public authorities, and public sector companies are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than one year. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or projects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. There are no general controls, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents Non-Egyptians may not sell property within five years after taking possession thereof. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Deposits in foreign currencies held by either Egyptian or foreign nationals are subject to a 10% requirement, which must be deposited with the CBE and are remunerated at the London interbank bid rate. The reserve ratio requirement for deposits in Egyptian pounds (excluding savings certificates with maturity of more than three years) is 14%, and these deposits are not remunerated. The requirements for assets in foreign currencies and Egyptian pounds are 25% and 20%, respectively. All banks operating in Egypt (except branches of foreign banks) are prohibited from depos- iting or having investment securities worth more than 40% of their capital base or 10% of their total investment abroad, whichever is lower, with a foreign correspondent bank. Ac- cording to the Banking Law, all banks operating in Egypt are prohibited from owning shares exceeding 40% of issued capital in joint-stock companies, locally or abroad. In addi- tion, the face value of the shares owned by the bank in these companies may not exceed the value of the bank's issued capital and reserves. In banks by nonresidents Shareholdings by residents or nonresidents in any bank in Egypt that exceed 10% of the bank's capital require approval from the CBE Board of Directors. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit for each currency (local or foreign) is 10% of Tier I and Tier II capital; and that for total long or short positions is 20% of Tier I and Tier II capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 327 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 13. The CBE's central rate was depreciated to LE 4.51 per $1. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 7. The CBE notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze accounts and assets of listed persons and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 29. The Egyptian pound was allowed to float. As a result, the exchange arrange- ment of Egypt was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: November 6, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency O ther legal t end er The do l l ar is the legal tender and c ircu la tes f ree ly at a f ixed rate of C8.75 per $1. Payments may be made in e i ther do l la rs or colones. S i lver and gold co ins in denom ina t ions of C150 and C2,500, respectively, are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass i f ica t ion Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The do l lar is used as a u n it of account and a med ium of exchange, with no limitations. The Cen tral Reserve Bank (CRB) is ob l iga ted to exchange colones in c ircu la t ion for the dollar upon request from banks at a fixed and unalterable exchange rate of C8.75 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Adm in i s tra t ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. El Salvador is a member of the CACM. All p r iva te sector fore ign exchange transac t ions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centre de Tramites de Exportation issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Con t ro ls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and /or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. He ld domes t ica l ly Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks and exchange houses or used to make payments abroad w i thout res tr ic t ion. Transfers of funds between these ac- 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 329 counts are not restricted, but the commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the CRB on the use of such accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Import perrnits issued by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for ethyl alcohol, sugar, and wheat f lou r. E f fec t ive March 23, 2002, imports of lightweight passenger and freight motor vehicles more than 8 years old and heavy passenger and freight vehicles more than 15 years old are not allowed (except fu l ly documented collectors' vehicles and vehicles donated to the state or to public service or charitable organizations; those used by handicapped or disabled per- sons; those used for agricultural and industrial work; and those connected with electricity generating plants, well drills, and water purifiers). Most import tar iffs range up to 10%, although higher tariffs are applied to some products, such as automobiles (25-30%); alcoholic beverages (30%); and textiles and luxury goods (20%). There are no tar iffs on capital goods and selected inputs. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive duty drawbacks on imported raw ma- terials equivalent to 6% of f.o.b. value of exports. Tariffs on imports of intermediate goods from outside the Central American region are 5-10%, and those on consumption goods are 15%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes EL SALVADOR All exports must be registered. Export permits, issued by the MOE, are required for diesel fue l, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. The foreign investment law limits inward direct investments in economic sectors such as commerce, industry, certain services, and fisheries (pesca de bajurd). Investments in cer- tain public works—e.g., railroads, piers, and canals —require government approval. Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be registered with the MOE for statistical purposes. Certain minimum capital re- quirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resi- dent shareholders. No. No. For statistical purposes, authorized banks are required to report to the CRB all transactions involving sums equivalent to $5,000 or higher. In addition, the anti-money laundering law requires authorized banks to report to the CRB multiple transactions by a single individual involving sums equivalent to $500,000 or higher if there is evidence that the transactions are not bona fide. External borrowing by financial institutions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10%. Effective December 16, 2002, the CRB remunerates commercial banks' liquidity reserves on the basis of the federal funds rate quoted by Bloomberg minus 0.15% (previously, based on the overnight rate quoted by Citibank plus 0.25%). Loans granted by banks to nonresidents or for investment abroad may not exceed 10% of the creditor bank's equity capital. Total loans under this category may not exceed 150% of a bank's equity capital, and the holding of loans by banks above 75% of the equity capital requires authorization subsequent to documentary requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 331 Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks is 10% of capital and re- serves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Pension funds may only invest locally. Insurance companies are permitted to invest abroad up to the limit (20%) specified by law. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2002 March 23. The importation of lightweight passenger and freight motor vehicles more than 8 years old and heavy passenger and freight vehicles more than 15 years old was prohibited with certain exceptions. December 16. The CRB's rate of remuneration for commercial banks' liquidity reserves was changed to the federal funds rate quoted by Bloomberg less 0.15% from the overnight rate quoted by Citibank plus 0.25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: J u ne 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Equa tor ial Gu inea is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.5%, exc lud ing VAT, is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. This commission is not levied on transfers relating to central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a du ly issued license and domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly contracted abroad, travel allowances paid by the government and its agencies for off ic ial missions, and payments of insurance p rem iums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional a r rangemen ts Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Equa tor ial Gu inea is l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made f ree ly in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any o ther Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun tr ies are u s u a l ly made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those coun tr ies or in euros through foreign accounts. An Opera t ions Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t im a t e ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regu la t ions of member coun tr ies in the CAEMC are harmonized. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (DNCC) of the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Exchange transactions with all countries must be effected th rough authorized banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payments arrears O f f i c i al Yes. Yes. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency EQUATORIAL GUINEA 333 Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe lry. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. New ly mined gold must be declared to the D irec tora te of M ines, which au tho r izes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of M ines and the MEF; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt f rom th is requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs dec la ra t ion. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes of up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of this l im it may be taken out by other means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexport of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the amount declared at the t ime of en try; the reexport of fo re ign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Resident and nonres ident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, the European Central Bank, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and co ins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Principal nonresident accounts in foreign currency are accounts denominated in euros and dollars. Accounts in euros are treated iden t ica l ly to accounts in domestic currency. The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on regu la t ions applied in France. Approval requ ired Approval is required, except for accounts in euros. Domestic currency accounts Because the BEAC suspended the repurchase of its banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Gu inea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports There are no restrictions on import financing, but certified bank documents are required. Import payments may be settled at authorized banks. Minimum financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required, except for imports of gold. Negative list Imports of some goods are prohibited for security, health, or safety reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Equatorial Guinea applies the common duty rates of the UDEAC on imports from nonmembers (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxury goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from this repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered within eight days following repatriation. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions valued at CFAF 2 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements and the presentation of appropriate documents. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 335 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments in excess of CFAF 2 million for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the MEF. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underlying trade transactions have been approved or do not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the underlying transactions have been approved. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to the payment of freight and insurance costs. Investment-related payments Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The transfer of rental income f rom real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted for up to 50% of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to payments of profit and dividends. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes of up to CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out by other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for business or tourist travel, the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip with no limit on the number of trips; (2) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to authorization by the MEF or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (3) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEF, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. These regulations are administered liberally, and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of all means of payment registered in their names is not restricted, subject to documentation that they were purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Except in the case of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, payments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the DNCC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Quantitative limits The transfer abroad of salaries of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay vouchers, together with records of the expenses, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period concerned. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEF, is limited to the ceilings for tourist and business travel allowances. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within one month of the due date. Proceeds earned in countries outside the CFA franc zone must be surrendered within one month of collection if received in foreign currency. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i th in eight days all means of payment Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange controls apply to capital transfers between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but there are no controls on capital receipts from such countries, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 337 On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain pr iv i leges are granted to approved direct investments, inc lud ing the unrestricted transfer abroad of debt payment and net prof i ts. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets A bona fide test is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Eritrea is the Eritrean nakfa. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Foreign exchange bureaus and authorized banks are officially allowed to transact freely in the foreign exchange market; however, the buying exchange rate has remained at about ERN 13.8 per $1 since September 2002, although the rate in the informal market has been at a premium of about 50%. The Bank of Eritrea (BE) prescribes a 0.25% commission on purchases of foreign ex- change, except for banknote transactions. Authorized dealers are permitted, but not re- quired, to levy an additional service charge of up to 0.25% for buying and 0.75% for selling foreign exchange on their own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Eritrea is a member of the COMES A. A clearing arrangement exists between the members of the COMES A. The BE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers and issues dealers' licenses. It may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents; the Ministry of Trade and Industry regulates foreign investments. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Authorization from the Ministry of Energy and Mines is required for the ownership or pos- trade session of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewelry without restrictions. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency holdings upon entry or departure. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 E R I T R EA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Y e s. Resident Accounts H e ld domestically H e ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Y e s. The opening of these accounts is restricted to resident banks. n.a. Y e s. Y e s. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are available on ly to members of the d ip loma t ic commun i ty; welfare or­ ganizations; nongovernmental organizations and their personnel; and jo int ventures and other business firms that invest their capital, w h o l ly or pa r t ia l ly, in foreign exchange. Conve r t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Y e s. N o. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget N o. Financing requirements for imports Mo st imports financed w i th off ic ial foreign exchange are effected under L Cs or on a cash- against-documents basis. Advance import deposits These are required on ly for LC type of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Y e s. Negative list Goods may be imported freely, w i th some exceptions. Open general licenses A ll importers must have a v a l id trade license issued by the Na t ional L icen s ing Office. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system A comm iss ion of 2% is collected on imports that do not require o f f ic ial foreign exchange and are not aid-funded (franco valuta imports). State import monopoly The imports of m i l i ta ry materials, weapons, armaments, and the l ike are conducted by the state. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements A ll export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days of shipment; where jus t i f ied, this deadline may be extended by another 90 days. Financing requirements Exports may be made under L Cs on an advance-payment basis or on a consignment basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 341 Documentation requirements All exports requ ire documentation. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the Ministry of Marine Resources. Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities with the approval of the BE. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 ERITREA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and whole- sale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; this latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved investments and their subsequent expansion are exempted from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks may maintain correspondent accounts with their counterparts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 15, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Estonia is the Estonian kroon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the euro at the rate of EEK 15.6466 per €1. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) provides commercial banks with the possibility of buying or selling foreign exchange to adjust their kroon liquidity. All transactions are initiated by commercial banks. For licensed credit institutions, the BOE is obliged to exchange euros and the other EU currencies, Japanese yen, and dollars for Estonian krooni and vice versa without limits. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the Estonian kroon against the euro or the other EU currencies. Transactions in convertible currencies are effected by commercial banks, which are free to quote their own exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Estonia has bilateral agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Kroon balances held by the central banks of these countries in their correspondent accounts are fully convertible without delay. No swing credits or over- draft facilities are provided by these arrangements. Commercial banks in Estonia are free to open their own correspondent accounts with commercial banks in the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other CIS countries. Administration of control The BOE issues and enforces foreign exchange regulations. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) controls and monitors imports and exports, and licenses gold trading. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Estonia applies restrictions in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolu- tions 1076, 1269, 1333, 1368, and 1373 and the measures adopted by the European Union within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy. There are some unsettled balances with Russia and certain other CIS countries that origi- nated in the early 1990s. Official All settlement issues with Russia are official. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 ESTONIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are no controls on exports and imports of banknotes, but a customs declaration is required if the amount involved exceeds a specified limit. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain dangerous chemicals are prohibited. Yes. Open general licenses are required for the following goods: alcohol, food, fuel and energy, medicinal products, narcotics and psychotropic substances, precious metals and stones, radioactive materials and devices, tobacco, and weapons. Licenses or special permits are required to import the following goods: explosives; weap- ons; radio broadcast equipment; plants; seeds; rare species of animals; goods subject to veterinary, and phytosanitary controls; certain foods; plant preservatives and fertilizers; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; audiovisual recording and pro- duction equipment; lottery tickets; strategic goods; radioactive materials; motor vehicles; products that decrease the ozone layer; precious metals, stones, and articles containing these products; and dangerous and other waste products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs ESTONIA 345 Import taxes inc lude custom duties (on some foodstuffs originating from third countries) and local taxes on goods (regulated by the Tax Act). Imported goods are subject to a VAT of 18% and excise duties that are levied on specific products, such as tobacco, alcohol, fuel, and packaging materials. Similar taxes are levied on domestically produced goods. The excise tax on motor vehicles was abolished on January 1, 2003. Effective March 1, 2003, the excise tax rate on fue l, tobacco, and alcohol was harmonized with EU regulations and w i ll apply when Estonia becomes a member of the EU. The harmonization of the rate of excise tax on tobacco will have a transition period up to 2010. Foodstuffs originating from countries with which Estonia has not concluded a free trade agreement are subject to customs duties. Free trade agreements have been concluded with the EFTA, the EU, the Czech Republic, the Faroe Islands, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Ukraine. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The export of certain dangerous chemicals is prohibited. Licenses or special permits are required for alcohol; items of cultural value; precious met- als, precious stones, and articles containing these products; medicinal products; weapons; explosives; rare species of plants and animals and hunting trophies; goods subject to veteri- nary, and phytosanitary controls; certain foods; narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances; strategic goods; radioactive substances; and toxic and other waste products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial guarantees to nonresident credit ins t i tu t ions are subject to reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 ESTONIA Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Effective January 1, 2003, restrictions on foreign capital participation in security service enterprises—as established in the Security Service Act—were eliminated. Previously, un- der the Security Service Act, the government was able to restrict such participation. Effective January 1, 2003, foreign capital controls in the aviation and maritime transport sectors were harmonized with EU regulations. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Effective January 1, 2003, the regulations on the purchase and sale of land were harmo- nized with EU regulations. This is subject to approval by the county governor concerned. Acquisition of real estate is prohibited in the islands, except for the four largest islands, and in certain local municipali- ties bordering Russia. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents There is a control on the transfer of real estate as a gift. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Effective March 1, 2003, credit institutions may not deduct claims to foreign banks from liabilities to foreign banks for the purpose of satisfying reserve requirements. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Net liabilities to foreign credit institutions are subject to a reserve requirement. There is no differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents of other sectors. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' open foreign exchange positions (as a percentage of individual foreign currencies and total position) are subject to prudential limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors There are some limitations to the credit risk of institutional investors. Those applicable to life and nonlife insurers limit the allocation of committed assets (i.e., assets covering tech- nical reserves) to trustworthy liquid assets (i.e., OECD A-zone and Estonian-regulated market for bonds and fund units, and International Organization of Securities Commis- sions—IOSCO—member state markets for shares held for short term). A pension fund may invest up to 100% of its assets in foreign securities. These securities must be free ly tradable and traded in regulated markets of Estonia and EU, EEA, or IOSCO member states, as specified in the fund rules. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January 1. The excise tax on motor vehicles was abolished. March 1. The excise tax rate on fue l, tobacco, and alcohol was harmonized with EU regula- tions and w i ll apply when Estonia becomes a member of the EU. Harmonization of the rate of the excise tax on tobacco will have a transition period up to 2010. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 347 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment January 1. Restrictions on foreign capital participation in security service enterprises—as established in the Security Service Act —were eliminated. January I. Foreign capital controls in the aviation and maritime transport sectors were harmonized with EU regulations. Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Regulations on the purchase and sale of land were harmonized with EU regulations. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March I. Credit institutions were no longer allowed to deduct claims to foreign banks from liabilities to foreign banks to satisfy reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian birr. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The official exchange rate of the birr against the dollar is determined in the interbank for- eign exchange market as the weighted average exchange rate prevailing on the preceding day. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to engage in all approved spot/cash current transactions. Authorized banks must observe a prescribed commission of 1.5% on selling, which accrues to the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign currencies among themselves. Ethiopia is a member of COMESA. Payments may be made w i th in the framework of COMESA. The NBE has transferred to commercial banks the responsibility for determining compli- ance of buyers and sellers of foreign exchange with import- and export-licensing require- ments and foreign exchange regulations. International security restrictions Payments arrears n.a. No. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 349 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownership of personal jewelry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the Minis- try of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permit- ted. Private companies may directly export newly worked gold, silver, and jewelry. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers may take out Br 100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign ex- change. Reconversion of birr to foreign exchange of up to the equivalent of $150 may be made without the presentation of any documentary evidence; for amounts exceeding $150, the presentation of authenticated documentary evidence is required, indicating that the equivalent amount of foreign exchange was lawfully converted into local currency. Travelers may bring in Br 100 in currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks may open foreign exchange retention accounts for eligible exporters of goods and recipients of inward remittances without prior approval from the NBE. Held domestically Exporters of services may open foreign exchange retention accounts with the NBE's approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Three types of nonresident accounts may be opened: foreign currency accounts, nonresi- dent transferable birr accounts, and nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign currency. The balances in the first two accounts may be transferred freely abroad or used for international payment purposes, while the balance in the nonresident nontransferable birr account is to be used mainly for local ex- penses. Transfer of funds from foreign currency accounts and nonresident transferable bin- accounts to nonresident nontransferable birr accounts do not require NBE approval. Diplomatic bodies, members of international organizations, and foreign investors may open all three types of foreign exchange accounts. Other nonresidents may open only nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. Effective January 1, 2002, all nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits and may be interest bearing. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval is required for the conversion of the balances in nonresident nontransferable bin- accounts into foreign cunency accounts. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 ETHIOPIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are allowed only for individuals or enterprises engaged in ex- port activities and/or who generate foreign exchange. Final invoices that separately show f.o.b. cost and freight charges and nonnegotiable bills of lading are required. Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by information on costs and payment terms and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with an Ethiopian insurance company. Domiciliation requirements Importers are required to insure their goods with local insurance companies. Preshipment inspection Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from the import-licensing requirement. Negative list The list includes items restricted for reasons of health and security. Open general licenses Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from this requirement. Import taxes and/or tariffs The item-weighted average tariff rate is 17.5%. Imports are subject to a 5% withholding tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters may retain 10% of their export proceeds in foreign exchange for an indefinite period. The remaining balance may be retained for a period of up to 28 days, after which it must be converted into local currency at the weighted average daily interbank exchange rate. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters must prove to the NBE that they have repatriated 100% of previous export earnings before being allowed to export again. Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes An export credit guarantee scheme is operational. All exports are processed by commercial banks, with the exception of coffee exports. Prior to January 1, 2002, when this tax was abolished, the exportation of coffee was subject to a tax of 6.5% of the exported value. Exporters were exempted from this tax when the price fell below the equivalent of $0.70 a pound for unwashed coffee or $1.05 a pound for washed coffee. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Approval is given by the commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 351 Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification of documentary evidence is required for unloading, storage, commission, and administrative expenses. Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits After paying local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Prior approval for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments is required mainly for government transactions made through the MOF. These are subject to an assessment based on the NBE's criteria. Verification of contractual agreement between parties is required by the NBE. Persons traveling abroad on holiday or business may purchase up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the rest in traveler's checks or drafts. For government travel, the allowance amounts vary by the country of destination and foreign currency required, based on the cost of living. Yes. Yes. There are no limits on allowance for medical treatment and studies abroad. A foreign ex- change bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide medical treatment abroad upon presentation of a medical board certificate, a passport, a valid exit visa, and an air transpor- tation ticket. A foreign exchange bureau may sell up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the balance in traveler's checks or drafts. Additional foreign exchange may be approved for a patient being treated abroad, provided that the application is supported by bona fide medical bills or hospital statements. A foreign exchange bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide tuition fee, subsis- tence, and other associated educational expenses upon presentation of a letter of admission and evidence of student attendance at an institution. Sales of foreign exchange to a student may be approved, up to $400 or its equivalent in cash or traveler's checks. The tuition fee, subsistence, and other associated educational expenses must be paid directly through bank transfer or draft to the educational institution. Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health is required for medical payments. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign contractual employees of the government may take out foreign exchange, not ex- ceeding their net earnings during the terms of service and upon f inal departure. However, the value of free accommodations, gratuities, accumulated leave pay, and similar benefits may not be included for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out foreign exchange on final departure, not exceeding their net earnings. Foreign employees of embassies, legations, consulates, and international organizations whose salaries are fu l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside Ethiopia may take out and/or transfer their net earnings, not exceeding the balance in their nonresident foreign currency account, nonresident transferable birr account, and/or nonresident nontransferable birr account. Yes. Documentation is required from the overseas institute and approval must be given by com- mercial banks for subscription and membership fees. NBE verification of contractual agreements between the parties is required for the transfer of legal fees, and applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 ETHIOPIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Ten percent of proceeds may be retained inde f in i te ly. The rema in ing balance may be retained for a period of 28 days only. These funds may be used for payments such as imports of goods and services, export promotion, tra in ing and education, credit repayment, and other payments approved by the NBE. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities There is no domestic market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There is no domestic market in these instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks need prior approval from the NBE to borrow funds abroad, but do not need prior approval for overdrawing the ir accounts with foreign correspondents or accepting deposits. Other residents need to obtain the NBE's prior approval, and the credits should be used for export-generating investments. The equity component of the debt/equity ratio of the loan shou ld not be less than 40%, except when the NBE issues a waiver. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks may issue guarantees on behalf of foreign banks to resident companies. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Yes. Foreign investors may ho ld up to 100% of the shares in any venture, except in the banking, insurance, and transport sectors, and may trade above a certain limit. Investment in telecommunications and defense industries is allowed in partnership with the government. Investments in ra il transport service, postal service (except courier service), the generation and supply of electricity above an installed capacity of 25 megawatts, as well as transmission and supply of electric energy through the Integrated National Grid System are reserved for the government. All investments must be approved and certified by the Ethiopian Investment Authority (EIA). Investments are allowed in areas such as agri- cu l tu re, livestock and crop production, manu fac tu r ing, m in ing, cons truc t ion, real estate, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 353 machinery leasing, social services, education, health, engineering services, technology- intensive industries, pharmaceutical and fertilizer production, and hotels and tourism. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. The EIA may decide on additional or new incentives when it deems this necessary. Authorization by the EIA is required for repatriation of capital. Registration of capital in- flows with the EIA establishes the evidence of inflows required for authorization. All rec- ognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of docu- ments regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign investors may transfer their capital without limitations upon final departure from Ethiopia. All foreign investors may also transfer abroad in con- vertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Ethiopian passport holders may purchase real estate in Ethiopia. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Regulations on financial credits apply. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transactions are not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks may not borrow from, or enter into a guarantee agreement with, banks abroad unless authorized by the NBE. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may maintain nostro accounts with their correspondents. Ethiopian airlines and shipping lines are also allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad All nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits, The overall foreign currency position of each bank should not exceed 15% of its capital at the close of business on each Friday. Residents are not allowed to invest in foreign securities. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 ETHIOPIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2002 Nonresident accounts January 1. All nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The tax on coffee exports was abolished. Previously, they were subject to a tax of 6.5%, with some exceptions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4, 1972. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Fiji is the Fiji dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The external value of the Fiji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the euro, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights are based on three-year moving averages of Fiji's direction of trade and are reviewed annually. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. No. No. Effective January 1, 2002, forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exporters and up to nine months for importers, with a limit of 100% of their capital (previously, 50%), except for oil com- panies, for which the limit is 50% of invoice value. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Although no specific requirements exist, settlements must be made in convertible curren- cies acceptable to both countries. Fiji participates in the following arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrange- ment, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the RBF, acting as an agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and trans- fers up to specified limits. Documentary evidence is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n.a. n.a. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins but not gold bullion, trade Controls on external trade The exportation of gold coins, except coins and collectors' pieces for numismatic purposes, requires specific permission from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license from the MOF; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bullion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to a 10% VAT. Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but subject to a 10% VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 FIJI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency are free of export du ty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, F$2,000). Exports of gold bu l l ion are subject to an export du ty of 3%. Exports are allowed of up to F$500 a trip for travel-related purposes only. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the time of arrival. Effective January 1, 2003, local travelers are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of F$20,000 (previously, F$ 10,000) in foreign currency ( inc lus ive of a m in imum of FS500 in local currency) for each overseas one-way and round trip. Travelers may free ly bring in Fiji banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigra- tion officials on arrival. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to cus- toms or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Applicable to resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Resident Accounts Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Fiji dollar resident (FDR) accounts may be maintained by resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. Ex- ternal Fiji dollar and foreign currency accounts are maintained by nonresident individuals and businesses. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. Effec- tive January 1, 2003, resident ind iv idua ls may open these accounts without RBF approval for amounts up to F$20,000, while resident businesses require RBF approval to open ac- counts for amounts exceeding F$ 100,000. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited free ly with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, or with payments from other external accounts. Commer- cial banks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for regional and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax); with interest payable on the account; with payments from other external accounts; with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder; and with Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji, or acquired by debit to an external ac- count, or acquired through the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to credit to domestic currency accounts the f u ll amount of the proceeds from sales of Fiji assets (prior to Janu- ary 1, 2003, these transactions were subject to a delegated limit of F$ 100,00 and prior to January 1, 2002, to a l im it of F$50,000). Other unspecified funds may be deposited up to F$ 1,000 a mon th. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 357 Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective January 1, 2002, authorized banks may approve up to a delegated limit of F$l million (previously, F$500,000) of advance payments for imports, if such payments are required by the supplier. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an OGL. Yes. Yes. Imports of poultry and poultry products and lubrication oils from any source require a spe- cific import license. The Ministry of Commerce, Business Development, and Investment (MCBDI) is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold and timber. Import licenses and other nontariff measures for gold are issued by the MOF; for timber, they are issued by the Ministry of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods is imported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. The import license for cyclonic building materials is jointly issued by the Department of Fair Trading and Consumer Affairs and the MOF. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Import licenses for frozen chicken from the United States are issued based on quotas. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expiration date requirements. All agricultural and forestry products are subject to quarantine clearance. Import tariffs are zero, 3%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 27%. For a few items, import tariffs of 15% and 20% apply. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Customs is delegated to process and approve all export of goods with no monetary return. Effective January 1, 2002, authorized banks are allowed to approve payment of up to F$l million (increased from F$500,000) for merchandise imports and up to F$500,000 (increased from F$50,000) for other business payments, respectively, from ex- port earnings. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the offset of for- eign exchange earnings against merchandise imports and other business payments up to the fu ll amounts payable (previously, these limits were F$l million and F$ 100,000 an invoice, respectively). Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export licenses are issued by the customs department and monitored by the comptroller of customs. Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 FIJI certain types of lumber, certain animals, and a few other items. The MCBDI is responsible for issuing export licenses for trochus shells, petroleum, and petroleum products. Irrespec- tive of export-licensing requirements, however, effective January 1, 2003, exporters are required to obtain a permit for exports of commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$2,000 (previously, F$ 1,000); this permit is required for ex- change control purposes. Export taxes A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar, gold, and silver. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Except for certain payments that are allowed up to specified limits above which RBF ap- proval is required, authorized banks may approve all payments. Effective January 1, 2002, documentary evidence is required for amounts above F$2,000. Insurance transfers are sub- ject to the approval of the Insurance Unit of the RBF and are then delegated to authorized banks. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the fu ll amount of payments due for commercial freight and repair services, insurance payments, and leasing services (pre- viously, these transactions were limited to F$l million an application, except for insurance payments which are allowed up to the fu ll amount subject to the approval of the Insurance Unit of the RBF. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits Payment of interest is allowed, provided prior approval for the loan was granted by the RBF, if the loan is in excess of F$500,000. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve up to F$ 100,000 a year (previ- ously F$50,000 a year) for dividend and profit remittances. Effective January 1, 2003, the limit on repatriation of profits was eliminated (previously, the limit was F$10 million a year). Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the fu ll amount of payments due for commissions and royalty payments (previously limited to F$l million an application). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2003, amounts exceeding F$20,000 a person (previously, F$ 10,000) require RBF approval. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1, 2003, commercial banks are allowed to make payments of up to the fu ll amount for medical expenses (prior to January 1, 2003, these transactions were subject to a limit of F$ 100,000; prior to January 1, 2002, F$50,000) if the payment is made directly to the institution. If the payment is made to the beneficiary, the limit is F$20,000 a year (prior to January 1, 2003, F$ 10,000; prior to January 1, 2002, F$5,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks are allowed to provide foreign currency to pay up to the fu ll amount of wages due to foreign crew members (prior to January 1, 2003, these transactions were subject to a limit of F$ 10,000; prior to January 1, 2002, F$5,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Quantitative limits FIJI 359 Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may provide the fu ll amount for credit card transactions (previously, these transactions were subject to a monthly limit of F$ 10,000 a cardholder; prior to January 1, 2002, F$7,500 a cardholder) and cash drawings (prior to January 1, 2003, F$5,000; prior to January 1, 2002, FS500) a cardholder a month. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks are allowed to approve the fu ll amount for the following payments: payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities (previously, F$100,000 of the amount due; prior to January 1, 2002, F$50,000); refunds on canceled hotel bookings (prior to January 1, 2003, F$ 100,000 of the amount due; prior to January 1, 2002, F$ 10,000 an application); and airline and ticket sales and earnings, com- mercial fees, charges and expenses, and movie rentals (prior to January 1, 2003, a limit of F$l million an application). Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Residents are required to sell all their foreign currency receipts to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Certain capital transfers in excess of the delegated limit require RBF approval for the commercial banks. Investments by nonresidents for amounts up to F$500,000 require au- thorization from either the South Pacific Stock Exchange (for investments in listed compa- nies) or commercial banks (for investments in Fiji dollar-denominated deposits). Some of the funding for these investments must originate from abroad or from earnings in Fiji. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 1, 2002, domestic companies are allowed to invest abroad up to F$ 100,000 (previously, F$50,000) a company a year. These investments are restricted to the establishment of subsidiary offices and equity purchases. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are controls on all transactions in bonds or other debt securities. On money market instruments There are controls on all transactions in money market instruments. On collective investment securities There are controls on all transactions in collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations There are controls on all derivatives transactions. Residents must obtain prior permission from the RBF to borrow abroad amounts exceeding F$500,000 in foreign currency. RBF permission is also required for any up-front fees pay- ments. Effective January 1, 2002, new borrowing or guarantee by nonresident-controlled business entities is restricted to F$10 million (previously, F$5 million), and that by non- resident ind iv idua ls is restricted to F$500,000 (previously, F$50,000). Effective January 1, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 FIJI 2003, authorized banks may provide up to F$100,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, F$50,000) of the amount due for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents The au tho r i ty to l im it bank guarantees is f u l ly delegated to commercial banks. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Effective January 1, 2002, nonbank financial institutions may invest up to F$l million. The l im it on overseas investment for individuals and families is F$20,000 a taxpayer a year, and the l im it on expenditure to set up sales offices or subsidiaries abroad by local companies is F$ 100,000 a year. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from nonresident sources. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Transactions exceeding the delegated limits for authorized banks require specific permis- sion from the RBF, which is readily granted upon evidence that the investment funds origi- nated abroad. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on investments. Effective January 1, 2003, the fu ll transfer of investments is allowed (previously, F$10 million) a year. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Se t t lement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Approval by the M in i s t ry of Lands and the Native Land Trust Board is required for pur- chases of state-owned property and designated Native Lease properties. Settlements off- shore of sale transactions in which both parties are nonresidents require RBF permission. Controls on settlements are effected to safeguard local interest before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effec t ive January 1, 2002, transfers abroad by emigrants without RBF approval is limited to F$50,000 and the annual l im it is F$500,000. Effective January 1, 2003, all transfers ex- ceeding F$ 100,000 by emigrants requ ire prior RBF approval and there is no annual limit. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 361 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The l im it for lending to a newly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that was controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside F i ji is F$10 m i l l ion (prior to January 1, 2002, F$5 million). Lenders are also allowed to authorize temporary overdrafts without reference to the RBF, provided full clearance of overdrafts is carried out w i th in 30 days. Borrowing by nonresident individuals is delegated to lending institutions and commercial banks for amounts up to F$500,000 (prior to January 1,2002,F$200,000). Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks and nonbank financial institutions may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the RBF. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. An ind iv idual (together with his or her relatives) may own up to 15% of the voting shares of a bank or credit institution. Ownership through a company may be up to 30%. This does not preclude the establishment of branches or subsidiaries incorporated in Fiji of 100% nonresident-controlled financial institutions. Net open position limits in terms of each bank's actual capital are set at the greater of 12.5% or FS0.4 m i l l ion, and 25% or FS0.8 m i l l ion up to a maximum of F$7.5 million, for a single currency and overall foreign currency, respectively. The limit on gross outstanding forward foreign exchange sales contracts is set at 50% of each bank's capital in Fiji, provided net outstanding forward exchange sales contracts do not exceed F$15 million. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective January 1, 2002, offshore investment by the Fiji National Provident Fund is lim- ited to F$10 m i l l ion (previously, F$5 million). Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Exchange arrangement Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2002 January 1. Trade transactions using forward exchange facilities for periods of up to six months for exporters and up to nine months for importers were allowed for up to 100% of capital (previously 50%), except for oil companies, for which the limit was set at 50% of invoice value. January 1. The amount that authorized banks are allowed to credit proceeds of sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts was increased to F$ 100,000 a sale from F$50,000. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve advance payments for imports of up to a delegated limit of F$l million (previously, a delegated limit of F$500,000 applied). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve payment of up to F$l million (in- creased from F$500,000) for merchandise imports and up to F$500,000 (increased from F$50,000) for other business payments, respectively, from export earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 FIJI Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve all payments, except for certain payments that are allowed up to specified limits above which RBF approval is required. Documentation requirements were imposed on amounts exceeding F$2,000. January 1. The repatriation of profits was subjected to a limit of F$10 million a year. January 1. The limit on payments by authorized banks for medical expenses was increased to F$ 100,000 a beneficiary a year from F$50,000. These payments are to be made directly to the institution. In the case of payments made to the beneficiary, the limit was increased to F$ 10,000 a year from F$5,000. January I. The amount that authorized banks are allowed to pay in wages in foreign cur- rency to foreign crew members was increased to F$ 10,000 from F$5,000. January L Authorized banks were allowed to approve credit card payments including cash drawings of up to F$5,000 a month (previously, F$50,000). January I. The amount that authorized banks were allowed to approve for payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities was increased to F$ 100,000 of the amount due from F$50,000. The amount for refunds on canceled hotel bookings was also increased to F$ 100,000 of the amount due (from F$ 10,000). Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January L The amount that domestic companies were allowed to invest was increased to F$ 100,000 a company a year from F$50,000. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment January L The maximum amount that nonresident-controlled business entities are allowed to issue as a new guarantee was increased to F$10 million from F$5 million of total new liability; for a nonresident individual, the limit was increased to F$500,000 from F$200,000. January I. Nonbank financial institutions were allowed to invest abroad up to F$l million. The annual limit on overseas investments for individuals and families was increased to F$20,000 from F$ 10,000, and the annual limit on expenditures for establishing sales offices or subsidiaries was increased to F$ 100,000 from F$50,000. Controls on liquidation of direct investment January L The limit on transfers on liquidation of investments was increased to F$10 mil- lion a year from F$5 million a year. Controls on personal capital transactions January 1. RBF approval would not be required for transfers abroad by emigrants of amounts up to F$5 0,000 and the annual limit on these transfers was set at F$5 00,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The limit for lending to a newly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji was raised to F$10 m i l l ion from F$5 million, and the limit on borrowing by nonresidents from lending institutions and commercial banks was raised to F$500,000 from F$200,000. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L Offshore investments by the Fiji National Provident Fund were limited to F$10 million (previously, F$5 million). Arrangements for payments and receipts January L The limit on the value of gold jewelry exports requiring export licenses was increased to F$20,000 from F$2,000. Changes During 2003 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts January 1. The maximum amount of currency that local travelers were allowed to take out of the country on an overseas round trip was increased to F$20,000 from F$ 10,000. January L Resident individuals were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts without RBF approval for amounts up to F$20,000, while resident businesses were required to ob- tain RBF approval to open accounts for amounts exceeding F$ 100,000. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to credit the fu ll amount of the proceeds from sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts (previously, a delegated limit of F$ 100,000 applied). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 363 Exports and export proceeds January I. The m in imum f.o.b. va lue of all commercial consignment of goods for which an export permit is required was increased to F$2,000 from F$ 1,000. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to offset foreign exchange earnings against merchandise imports and other business payments up to the fu ll amount payable (previ- ously subject to a delegated l im it of F$l m i l l ion and a delegated l im it of F$ 100,000 an invoice, respectively). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve the fu ll amount for payments due for airlines and shipping ticket sales and earnings, commercial fees, charges and expenses, insurance payments, commercial f re ight and repair services, leasing services, and movie rentals (previously limited to F$l million an application). January I. Authorized banks were allowed to approve up to F$ 100,000 a year for dividend and profit remittances (previously limited to F$50,000). January 1. The limit on repatriation of profits was eliminated (previously, it was subject to a limit of F$10 million a year). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve the f u ll amount of payments due for commissions and royalty (previously, limited to F$l million). January 1. The limit on travel payment subject to RBF approval was increased to F$20,000 from F$ 10,000 a person. January I. Commercial banks were allowed to make payments of up to the fu ll amount for medical expenses if the payment is made directly to the institution (previously subject to a delegated limit of F$ 100,000). If the payment is made to the beneficiary, the limit is F$20,000 a year (previously, F$ 10,000). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign currency to pay up to the fu ll amount of wages due to foreign crew members a beneficiary (previously limited to F$ 10,000 a beneficiary). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign exchange for fu ll payments on credit cards (previously limited to F$ 10,000 a month), with a limit on cash drawings of F$ 10,000 a month (previously limited to F$5,000). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve the fu ll amount of superannuation payments due (previously limited to F$ 100,000 an application); and the fu ll amount of refunds on canceled hotel and airline bookings (previously limited to F$ 100,00 an application). January L Authorized banks may release up to F$ 100,000 (previously, F$50,000) of the amount due for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments. January 1. The fu ll transfer of investment liquidation was permitted (previously, F$ 10,000 a year). Controls on personal capital transactions January 1. All transfers exceeding F$ 100,000 by emigrants requ ired prior RBF approval (previously, F$50,000); and the annual limit on transfers was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of F in land is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Finnish markka remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and Febru- ary 28, 2002, both the Finnish markka and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender F in land participates in a currency un ion (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Finnish markka was set at Fmk 5.94573 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. There are no exchange controls. Import licensing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export l icens ing relating to international export control regimes is administered by the trade department/foreign trade d iv is ion of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. On Apr il 8, 2002, the Finnish authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terror- ism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council reso- lutions. F in land ma in ta ins exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions against Iraq and Libya. Finland maintains exchange restrictions against Serbia and Monte- negro. Pursuant to EU regulations, funds of certain individuals associated with the former government of Yugoslavia are frozen. A UN Security Council resolution on food for oil (Iraq) is implemented. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 365 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The fo l low ing products are subject to quan t i ta t ive import restrictions and requ i re an import license when imported into the EU: agr icu l tural products; certain steel products subject to b i la teral agreements with Russia and Ukraine; certain steel products subject to autonomous commun i ty quotas for Kazakhstan; specific tex t i le produc ts subject to bilateral agreements with th ird countries, par t icu lar th ird-coun try tex t i le products subject to autonomous com- m u n i ty quotas; and certain Chinese indus tr ial products subject to au tonomous commun i ty quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the M in is t ry of Trade and Indus t ry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Defense. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 Without quotas Export taxes FINLAND Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment No. No. Acqu is i t ion of shares g iv ing at least one-third of the voting rights in a Finnish defense en- terprise to a single foreign owner requires prior confirmation by the Ministry of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of public defense is jeopardized. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences is allowed for nonresidents who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least five years. Controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secon- dary residences by nonresidents in the Aaland Islands. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Prudential regulations that are harmonized with EU directives apply. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 367 Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the markka could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 8. The Finnish authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism, in ac- cordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the euro. Through February 17, 2002, however, the French franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 17, 2002, both the French franc and the euro circulated. On February 18, 2002, the euro be- came the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market France participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the French franc was set at F 6.55957 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in the euro exchange rate. A f ixed conversion rate of CFPF 1,000 per €8.38 applies to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands. Two groups of A f r ican countries are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t: Ben in, Burk ina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute f inanc iere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale, issued by the BEAC). The fixed par i ty is €1 per CFAF 655.957. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc at a fixed parity of €1 per CF 491.968. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase for- eign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, inc lud ing private persons, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward w i thout restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The M in i s t ry of Economy is the coordinating agency for f inanc ial relations with foreign coun t r ies. It is responsible for all matters re la t ing to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters re la t ing to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the l ike. The execu t ion of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 369 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions On February 5, 2002, the French authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze accounts of listed persons and entities linked to terrorists pursuant to the relevant EC regulations and UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with the new EU regu- lations (CE Nr 881/2002 of May 27, 2002) specific restrictive measures are imposed re- garding these same persons and entities. (In certain cases, the authorities had previously issued provisional decrees freezing funds of persons and organizations related to terrorism.) In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, restrictions on payments have been imposed on Iraq; Myanmar; certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia; Zimbabwe; and ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of €7,600 must be declared to customs upon arrival or departure. On imports Foreign currency At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 FRANCE Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that origi- nate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual li- censes. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Cer- tain goods originating in the EU that are of a strategic nature or of national interest (e.g., works of art) are licensed. Some imports from non-EU countries require administrative visas issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry. Imports of products of the ECSC re- quire such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Products covered by the Common Market regulations require import certificates. Duties are collected at the time of entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an anti- dump ing levy may be added. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for precious metals, works of art, jewelry, and collections of jewels and antiques, which are subject to a levy. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior to March 7, 2003, when these were eliminated, there were controls on shares or other securities of a participating nature issued by non-OECD area residents. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior to March 7, 2003, when these were eliminated, there were controls on bonds and other debt securities issued by non-OECD area residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 371 On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Prior to March 7, 2003, when these were eliminated, there were controls on money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents. Prior to March 7, 2003, when these were eliminated, there were controls on collective in- vestment securities issued by non-OECD area residents. No. No. Effective March 7, 2003, direct investments by non-publicly listed companies have been redefined as those in which foreign investors hold together more than one-third of the capi- tal. However, there are no controls on investments in a company whose capital is more than two-thirds foreign owned. In the case of firms whose shares are listed on the stock ex- change, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI) may take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents, licenses, or commercial contracts. An authorization is required for investments in areas pertaining to public order, public health, and defense. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the MINEFI within 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds have been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Prior to March 7, 2003, when these were eliminated, there were controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies in the EU are required to cover their technical reserves with assets expressed in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the French franc could be used for payments through February 17, 2002. February 18. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 5. The French authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze accounts of listed terrorists and Al Qaeda network pursuant to the relevant EC regulations and UN Security Council resolutions. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 FRANCE Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments March 7. Controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents were eliminated. Controls on direct inves tment March 7. Direct investments by non-publicly listed companies were redefined as those in wh ich foreign investors hold together more than one-third of the capital. However, there are no controls on investments in a company whose capital is already more than two-thirds foreign owned. In the case of f irms whose shares are listed on the stock exchange, the threshold was reduced to 20% of the capital and would apply to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the MINEFI may take into account any special relationships result- ing from stock options, loans, patents, licenses, or commercial contracts. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors March 7. Controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of Gabon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the f ixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commis- sions are levied at the rate of 0.5% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury, national accounting offices, and private entities granted exemption by the M in is t ry of Economy, Finance, Budget, and Privatization (MEFBP) because of the na tu re of the ir activities. Foreign exchange operations are subject to a VAT, wh ich is levied on commissions charged by authorized dealers. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market There are no domestic forward exchange markets, but exporters and importers may obtain fore ign exchange risk cover on the Paris foreign exchange market for periods not exceeding n ine months. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Gabon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in euros or in any of the currencies of these countries or through foreign accounts in CFA francs. There are no limits on the circulation of domestic currency among CAEMC member coun- tries. As the domestic currency is no longer repurchased outside the CAEMC area, exports of domestic currency to the countries outside the CAEMC are prohibited. The CFA franc may be used freely for current transactions and payments within the CAEMC. It may be used, through correspondent banks, for payments with other countries, provided that both parties agree to the terms of the contract. The CFA franc may be used free ly for capital transactions w i th in the CAEMC. Settlements w i th other coun t r ies are made in euros or in any of the currencies agreed to by both parties to the transac t ion. Transactions in capital and money market in s t rumen ts Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 GABON Use of foreign exchange among residents Use of foreign exchange among residents is considered a foreign exchange operation and may be effected only through an authorized intermediary. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The government is allowed to hold oil reserve-related deposits in foreign currencies with commercial banks in Gabon, and to use them to service foreign debt obligations. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CAEMC are harmonized. Yes. The Directorate of Financial Institutions (DPI) of the MEFBP implements foreign exchange regulations. The MEFBP also has partly delegated its administrative authority over foreign exchange operations to authorized intermediaries (the postal administration and banks) that verify compliance, collect statistics, and report to the monetary authorities. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are enforced in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1373. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold, purchase, and sell gold and precious stones of all kinds within the CAEMC. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the MEFBP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the So- ciete gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. Imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Exports of CFA francs issued by the BEAC to areas outside the CAEMC are prohibited. Residents traveling to areas outside the CAEMC are subject to the various limits imposed on foreign exchange allocated for each trip, depending on the nature of the travel. Nonresi- dent travelers may take with them foreign currency or other foreign means of payment equivalent to the maximum amount declared upon entry into the CAEMC area. Above this ceiling or in the absence of declaration, nonresidents must provide supporting documents explaining the origin of such amounts. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import into one CAEMC country from another, but imports of banknotes from outside the CAEMC area, by both residents and nonresidents, are prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may import foreign banknotes and coins into Gabon, but the amount must be declared to Customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Residents are not authorized to open foreign exchange accounts within the CAEMC. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 375 Approval required Held abroad Approval required The MEFBP may permit certain resident legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts subject to BE AC approval. These accounts are permitted, but must be reported to the monetary authorities. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents may hold accounts abroad subject to regulatory provisions of the countries concerned. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Domestic currency accounts are not convertible into foreign exchange. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but must be reported to the monetary authorities. Authorized intermediaries are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts in CFA francs for nonresidents freely within the CAEMC provided that they inform the monetary authorities. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts Residents and nonresidents may maintain blocked accounts with banks in Gabon. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some products are prohibited for security and health reasons. Quantitative re- strictions are maintained on imports of sugar. Imports from all countries, except for sugar and those on the negative list, are permitted freely and do not require licenses, and imports, except for gold and health- and security- related items, are subject to declaration for statistical purposes. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. The common duty rates of the CAEMC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for con- sumer goods. Imports of sugar, poultry, cooking oil, and soap are subject to a surcharge. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CAEMC area must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the contract, unless a special waiver is granted by the MEFBP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 GABON Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered w i th in one month of collection. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports are subject to declaration to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Export taxes are levied on manganese (5%) and forestry products (20%). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to bona fide tests in the form of declaration and presentation of supporting documents to the MEFBP. For many types of payments, the MEFBP has delegated the control au thor i ty to authorized intermediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underlying trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Payments exceeding CFAF 100 m i l l ion are subject to supporting documentary requirements. Payments of profits dividends, interest, and royalties to nonresidents are permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been authorized or does not require authorization. Residents traveling to France or other Operations Account countries may obtain an unlim- ited amount of euros. Travelers to the CAEMC area may take out BEAC banknotes with- out l im i t. Residents traveling to areas outside the CAEMC are allowed to take out foreign banknotes and other means of payment up to the equivalent of CFAF 4 million and CFAF 10 million for tourism and business purposes, respectively. Yes. Yes. Students and trainees traveling to countries outside the CAEMC area may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of CFAF 5 million. Persons traveling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for medical reasons may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 5 m i l l ion; additional amounts may be obtained upon submission of supporting documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers and a copy of their work contract. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFBP, is limited to the ceilings applicable to tourism and business travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 377 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts All proceeds from inv is ib le transactions must be declared to the administrative authorities, and transactions exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled with an authorized bank. All proceeds received from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected within 30 days of the due date, and if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in one month of the re- ceipt date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital transactions between Gabon and France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely, except for the sale or issuance of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and require the approval of the DPI, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted freely, provided that they are not related to activities that are prohibited by CAEMC regulations. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions must be reported to the MEFBP. Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts The issu ing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in amounts exceeding CFAF 10 m i l l ion in Gabon requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. Operations in connection with the following are exempt from authorization: (1) loans backed by a guaran- tee from the Gabonese government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, ad- vertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Transactions must be reported to the MEFBP. Bonds or other debt securities All of these transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC 30 days before they are effec ted. On money market in s t rum en ts All of these transac t ions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC 30 days before they are effected. Purchase abroad by residents Transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Lending by natural and jur id ical persons whose usual residence or registered office is in Gabon or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered off ice ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 GABON To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following are exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by authorized banks; and (2) other loans, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DPI within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing contracted by natural and juridical persons whose usual residence or registered o f f ice is in Gabon or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered o f f ice is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following transac- tions are exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower. However, for the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DFI within 30 days of the operation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Direct investment is defined as the acquisition of more than 10% of the capital of a company. Direct investments, including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Gabon, must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. Direct investments exceeding CFAF 100 million must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the rein- vestment of undistributed profits. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Controls on real estate transactions All these transactions must be supported by appropriate documents and reported to the MEFBP. Controls on personal capital transactions Transactions are permitted without controls but supporting documents indicating the origin of funds and the nature of transactions must be presented. Loans By residents to nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million are subject to authorization. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million require authorization. To residents from nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million must be reported to the MEFBP. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants MEFBP authorization is required for settlement of debts abroad exceeding CFAF 5 million; supporting documents (loan contract, schedule, etc.) must be presented. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Supporting documents on the origin of assets must be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 379 Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfers exceeding CFAF 100 million must be reported to the MEFBP. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Supporting documents on the origin of funds must be submitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending (and repayment of loans) must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC within 30 days of its execution. Lending locally in foreign exchange Transactions are prohibited. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Transactions are subject to MEFBP authorization, Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Authorized banks may invest part of their equity capital abroad with authorization by the BEAC and the Banking Commission. Nonresidents may be authorized to invest in local banks with the authorization of the BEAC and the Banking Commission. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian dalasi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG) actively intervenes in the foreign exchange mar- ket by both selling and buying foreign exchange. As a result, effective June 30, 2002, the exchange arrangement of the Gambia has been reclassified from the category of independ- ently floating to the category of managed floating with no preannounced path for the ex- change rate. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the CBG, or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and foreign ex- change bureaus. During this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate applied to government transactions and customs valuations for the following week. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. The Gambia participates in the WAMA. Yes. No. n.a. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Commercial banks are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts for their clients, provided that the banks have demonstrated to the CBG that they have well-developed inter- nal risk-control systems in place. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 381 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. Yes. Negative list Imports of certain goods are subject to prior authorization for health and security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duty rates range from zero to 18%. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, dip- lomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt from this tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits There are no capital markets or stock exchange markets in The Gambia. These instruments do not exist in The Gambia. Yes. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange exposure limits set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis, and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange arrangement of The Gambia was reclassified to the category man- aged floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independ- ently floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Georgia is the Georgian lari. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating While the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) does not intervene in the market to support the exchange rate, it purchases foreign exchange when this is consistent with its inflation ob- jectives and to build up official reserves. The official exchange rate for the dollar is deter- mined daily. The official rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and enterprises and other legal entities. The NBG and the major commercial banks participate in the fixing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Ex- change (TICEX) for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market This market is largely inoperative. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations The NBG has set limits on credits issued by commercial banks to individual customer and noncustomer borrowers, as well as on the maximum amount to all customer borrowers and to the 10 largest borrowers. There are rules for creating loss provisions for assets (including credits). Use of foreign exchange among residents All domestic settlements must be made in lari. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The NBG is responsible for issuing a single license to perform banking operations in do- mestic and foreign currencies. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Georgia has accumulated official arrears to Turkmenistan. Yes. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 GEORGIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) A l icense is requ ired to trade in gold. Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to f o ur u n i ts of each cu r rency denom ina t ion may be taken out w i thout permission. For exports exceeding th is l im i t, NBG authorization is required. There is no restriction on the amoun ts that may be exported, but exports must be declared. Yes. There is no restriction on the amounts that may be imported, but imports must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts There are no restrictions on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for a ll au tho r ized transac t ions. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs GEORGIA 385 Licenses are required for imports of weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceu- ticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). Imported cigarettes are subject to a higher rate of excise tax than domestically produced cigarettes. A customs duty of 12% is levied on most non-CIS imports, as well as imports of fuels from CIS countries; certain goods are subject to a 5% customs duty, including specific capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials. Items exempt from cus- toms duties include baby food, mazut, oil products, goods intended for embassies, imported goods in customs warehouses, reexports, some pharmaceutical products, and raw materials and semifinished goods destined for production of goods to be exported within certain lim- its. A customs processing fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not exceeding lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Other Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Yes. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; scrap metal; pine seeds; numismatic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleon- tological, archaeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for the production of medicine. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. Exports of nonferrous metal were subject to a temporary ban un t il March 1, 2002. Yes. A general customs processing fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not exceeding lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests in the case of all payments for invisible transac- tions and current transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 GEORGIA Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration re- quirements for monitoring purposes. The issuance, trading, recording, and redemption of government securities are regulated. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Under the Foreign Investment Law, the taxation and promotion of investment activities by joint ventures and foreign enterprises are regulated by the current tax legislation. No. No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The reserve requirement is 14%. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 387 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Exports and export proceeds March L The temporary ban on exports of nonferrous metal was lifted. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Germany is the euro. On January 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender; however, the deu tsche mark con t inued to be accepted for payments through Febru- ary 28, 2002. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in a currency u n i on (EMU) w i th 11 other members of the EU: Aus- tria, Belgium, F in land, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portu- gal, and Spain. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and f in an c i al transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and in in te rna t ional foreign exchange markets. Germany has no o f f i c i a l ly f ixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements No. No. Adm in istrat ion of control All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions In accordance w i th EU regu la t ions and the re levant UN Secur i ty Coun c il resolutions, cer- ta in restrictions are ma in ta ined on the mak ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, 13 ind iv idua ls associated with the previ- ous government of the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe (from February 18, 2002). In accordance w i th EU Regu la t ion 147/2003, effec t ive Janua ry 27, 2003, f in an c ing of and f i n a n c i al assistance related to m i l i t a ry ac t iv i t ies in Somalia are p roh ib i ted. On De- cember 20, 2002, restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were l if ted. Restric- tions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and ind iv idua ls and organizations associated w i th terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On January 25, 2002, the authorities no t if ied the IMF that a series of additional measures and prov is ional decrees freez ing the accounts of and bann ing payments in favor of the Ta l iban, l is ted terrorists, and persons and organ iza t ions related to terrorism was in effect. In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Resident Accounts 389 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other non tar iff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to the EU's annual global quota. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to the agreement on textiles and clothing and to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU with various supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a voluntary restric- tions agreement. Imports of rolled steel products from Kazakhstan are subject to an autonomous EU quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Other Export licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 Without quotas Export taxes GERMANY Certain exports (mostly military and dual-use goods) are subject to individual, global, or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are certain provisions for prudential regulation for portfolios of life insurance and pension funds. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The regulations governing securities apply. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Currency-matching regulations for life insurance, pension funds, and old-age provision investment funds exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement January 1. The euro became the sole legal tender; however, the deutsche mark continued to be accepted for payments through February 28, 2002. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Arrangements for payments and receipts GERMANY 391 January 25. The authorities notified the IMF that a series of measures and provisional de- crees freezing the accounts of and banning payments in favor of the Taliban, listed terror- ists, and persons and organizations related to terrorism were in effect in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. February 18. In accordance with EU regulations, sanctions were imposed against Zimbabwe. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31. 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian cedi. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate is based on the average rates reported by authorized banks in their transactions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currenc ies, with da i ly quo ta t ions based on the buying and selling rates for the do l lar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Ex change subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requ irements Use of fore ign exchange among re s iden ts Settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made th rough c lea r ing accoun ts ma in ta ined by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the central banks of the coun t r ies concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries with wh ich Ghana does not have b i la te ral payment agreements must be received in the currency of the importing coun- try (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for authorized inward payments to res iden ts of Gh ana for transfers to other o f f ic ial accoun ts related to the same country and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. The Exchange Control Act proh ib i ts the quotation of prices and the acceptance of payments for goods and services in foreign exchange. However, authorized dealers may conduct the ir business in foreign exchange. Payments arrangemen ts B i la te ral paymen ts arrangemen ts Yes. Inoperative R e g i o n al a r r ang em en ts C l e a r i ng ag reemen ts Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Ghana has agreements with Bulgaria, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Poland, Romania, and the S lovak R e p u b l i c. There have been delays in the settlement of c lear ing balances on these agreements. G h a na is a member of WAMA. Yes. The BOG records and confirms foreign capital in f lows and administers foreign exchange for o f f i c i al payments and trave l. All foreign exchange t ransac t ions by the private sector are approved and effected by authorized banks w i thout reference to the BOG. I n t e r n a t i o n al secur i ty restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 393 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may purchase, sell, and hold gold coins and jewelry. Transactions in gold in any other form require authorization. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from or sell or lend any gold to any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bu l l ion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 25% in addition to the VAT. All exports of gold are subject to BOG approval. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to the equivalent of C5,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to $5,000 or its equivalent in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases. Nonresident travelers may export foreign cur- rency they have declared on entry. Travelers may reimport up to the equivalent of the C5,000 that they were allowed to export. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Conversion is not allowed, except for approved purposes. Nonresident Accounts The accounts may be credited with transfers from other foreign exchange accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresi- dent account status is granted to embassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staff. It is also avail- able to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 GHANA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports valued at the equivalent of $5,000 or more are subject to destination inspections. Most imports are effected with confirmed LCs established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Imports on a collection basis are permitted. Imports of narcotic drugs are prohibited, and imports of small and dangerous weapons are restricted. Effective Ju ly 12, 2002, the import ban on old used cars was abolished. The maximum tariff rate is 20% of the c.i.f. value of import. Effective July 12, 2002, a special tax of 20% on 366 tariff items was eliminated. Importers without a taxpayer iden- tification number are subject to a 5% withholding income tax on the value of their imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold at market rates upon receipt in the banks. Nontraditional exports are not subject to surrender requirements, while 20% to 40% of gold and 98% of cocoa export proceeds are surrendered to the BOG. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation No. Yes. Preshipment inspection All exports are subject to customs inspection. Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. Cocoa exports are subject to a tax that is calculated as the difference between export pro- ceeds and payments to farmers, together with the Cocoa Board's costs if proceeds exceed payments. Effective February 21, 2002, lumber exports are subject to a 7% tax (calculated on the f.o.b. value). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $5,000 in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases abroad. Nonresidents may reexport foreign cur- rency declared on arrival. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 395 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers or held in foreign exchange- denominated bank accounts in resident banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); individ- ual holdings and total holdings of all nonresidents in any one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, nonresi- dent participation requires the following minimum equity injections to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is a joint venture; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in capital goods in the case of a trading enterprise involved only in the purchasing and selling of goods that is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian and that employs at least 10 Ghanaians. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the MOF. The transfer or repa- triation of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents There are no controls on these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy secu- rities requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions requ ire the prior approval of the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Current regulations do not allow nonresidents to bring in foreign exchange for the purpose of investing in local money market instruments (BOG and government securities). How- ever, nonresidents holding accounts in domestic currency may invest in these instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply to these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy these instruments requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases require prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions, as well as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated with these sales, including those derived from the liquidation of such securities, require BOG approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to buy such securities requires prior approval from the BOG. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 GHANA Sale or issue abroad by residents These t ransac t ions requ i re the consent of the MOF. Contro ls on der iva t ives and other instruments Cu r r en t ly, the local market in der iva t ives is l im i ted. Purchase l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts These transactions requ ire BOG approval. Sale or issue l o c a l ly by non res iden ts These transactions requ i re BOG approval. Pu rchase abroad by res iden ts The purchase of foreign exchange to effect such transactions requires BOG approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F i n a n c i al credits BOG approval is required for these credits, wh ich must be channeled through the banking system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents These credits require BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inwa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documen ta ry evidence and are considered on their merits. Certain areas of economic ac t iv i ty are not open to foreigners. Foreign investments in Ghana requ i re the pr ior approval of the Ghana Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) if they are to benef it from the fac i l i t ies available under the GIPC Act, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in pr inc ip le, the right to transfer income from investments and, in the event of sale or l i q u i d a t i o n, cap i tal proceeds. Tax holidays and i n i t i al capital allowances are also available for such investments. The m i n im um qu a l i fy ing amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a joint- ven ture enterprise w i th a Ghana ian partner; (2) $50,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods by way of e q u i ty when the enterprise is w h o l ly owned by a non-Ghana ian; and (3) $300,000 or its equ iva lent in goods by way of equ i ty capital when the enterprise is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghana ian, employs at least 10 Ghanaians, and is involved in the pu rchas ing and se l l ing of goods. The GIPC Act s t ipu la tes that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- pu tes over the am o u nt of compensation are settled in accordance w i th the established pro- cedure for conc i l ia t ion (e.g., through arbitration by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law). Controls on real estate transactions Pu r ch a se abroad by res iden ts Yes. Controls on personal capital t ran sa c t ions There are con tro ls on all personal capital movements, except regarding the transfer of gifts, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances and legacies to res iden ts from non res iden ts and the transfer of assets in to the coun try by immigrants. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad BOG no t i f ica t ion is requ ired. Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad BOG n o t i f i c a t i on is requ ired. L end ing to non res iden ts ( f in an c i al or comm e r c i al c red i t s) BOG approval is required. L e n d i ng l o c a l ly in fo r e ign exchange Yes. P u r c h a se of l o c a l ly issued secu r i t ies denom ina ted in fo re ign exchange These purchases are a l lowed w i t h in reasonable or acceptable l im i t s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 397 D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents E f fec t ive September 23, 2002, fore ign cu r rency deposits are subject to a 9% reserve re- q u i r em e n t, and the reserve balance mu st be he ld w i th the BOG. BOG approval is required. Foreign-owned banks must have a m in imum capital of C50 b i l- l ion, of which 60% must consist of conver t ib le currencies brought into Ghana. Open fo re ign exchange position l im i ts The d a i ly s ing le cu r r en cy exposu re l im it is 15% of the capital base, and that on the aggre- gate net open position is 30%. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments July 12. The special tax of 20% that applied to 366 tariff items was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds February 21. A tax of 7% was imposed on exports of lumbe r. July 12. The ban on imports of old used cars was abolished. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions September 23. Foreign currency deposits were made subject to a 9% reserve requ i remen t, and the reserve balance must be held with the BOG. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 22, 1992. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the euro. On January 1, 2002, euro banknotes and coins were introduced, and through February 28, 2002, the Greek drachma and the euro were used in cash transactions. The euro became the sole legal tender on March 1, 2002. Unitary. Greece participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the drachma was set at Dr 340.75 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Forward coverage is provided by domestic credit institutions to their customers in all major currencies at freely negotiable market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in any currency. No. There are no exchange controls. Resident credit institutions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions with nonresidents and are obliged to provide to the Bank of Greece (BOG) all the information necessary to compile the balance of payments. On April 11, 2002, the authorities notified the IMF that all accounts and assets related to the Taliban and persons designated as terrorists had been frozen and a ban on payments and capital transfers was put in place. These measures were taken in accordance with the rele- vant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe (from February 18, 2002). In accordance with EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financ- ing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. On December 20, 2002, restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Re- strictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organiza- tions associated with terrorism. Payments arrears No. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports On imports GREECE 399 Natural and juridical persons, residents, and nonresidents are free to purchase and sell gold coins and/or bars that are not used for commercial and industrial purposes. This gold may be purchased by and sold to the BOG and/or any other credit institution operating in Greece authorized to carry out transactions in foreign exchange. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents are required to declare upon entering and/or leaving Greece amounts of gold exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 and €2,000, respectively, or to submit a copy of the document certifying that the relevant latter transac- tion was carried out by a resident credit institution. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents leaving Greece should declare amounts of banknotes in domestic and/or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €2,000. In this declaration, they must also specify the purpose of the export of banknotes; in addition, residents of Greece must provide their fiscal number. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents entering Greece should declare the amount of imported banknotes in domestic and foreign currency if the total amount exceeds the equivalent of €10,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are permitted to convert deposits in domestic currency held with resident credit institutions into foreign currency deposits. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for some specific products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medi- cines, narcotics, and motion picture films. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 GREECE Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no limits for these transactions. However, for statistical purposes, transactions involving amounts equal to or exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 require supporting documentation. Effective Ju ly 1, 2002, domestic credit institutions are no longer required to report transactions below this amount. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Existing legislation on inward direct investment imposes certain controls on the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature in the broadcasting and maritime sec- tors by non-EU residents. No. No. Inves tmen ts in border regions by non -EU residents requ ire approval for reasons of national security. There are also controls on the acquisition of m in ing rights and participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or maritime and air transport. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 401 Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are certain prudential provisions that d i f fer according to the type of institutional investor. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad There are certain prudential provisions that d i f fer according to the type of ins t i tu t ional investor. Limits (min.) on investment por tfo l io held locally There are certain p ruden t ial p rov is ions that d i f f er according to the type of in s t i tu t ion al investor. Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition For pruden t ial purposes, the provisions applied to EU countries are in effect, Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January I. Euro banknotes and coins were in troduced. Both the euro and the Greek drachma could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and February 18. Certain f inanc ial transactions w i th Zimbabwe were proh ib i ted. March I. The euro became the sole legal tender. April I I. The au tho r i t ies no t i f ied the IMF that a ll accounts and assets of the Ta l iban and persons designated as terrorists had been frozen and a ban had been placed on their pay ments and capital transfers, in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Secur i ty Counc il resolutions. December 20. The sanctions against the UN I TA movement in Angola we re l i f t e d. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 1. Domestic credit ins t i tu t ions were no longer required to report payments below the equ iva lent of €12,500. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. F inanc ing of and f inanc ial assistance related to m i l i tary activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 24, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Set- tlements with residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Grenada is a member of the CARICOM. Grenada participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. All transactions up to the equivalent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency are allowed without approval from the MOF. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. Exchange controls are not applied to payments for authorized imports. The Trade and Industry Unit of the MOF administers trade control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions on trade relations with Libya. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The MOF issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not nor- mally permitted. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 403 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada, and both residents and nonresidents must receive permis- sion from the MOF to take out, in any one transaction, sums in excess of EC$250,000. On imports No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holders of these accounts must submit regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Domestic currency accounts These accounts must be credited with funds from an external source. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods and services in excess of the limits of ADs require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Prohibited goods include whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quan t i ta t ive restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, including arms and ammunition, carbonated beverages, flour, industrial gas, paints, and miscellane- ous items associated with furn i ture and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, industrial gas, furn i ture, and solar water heaters. Grenada applies the four th phase CARICOM CET. All imports from non-CARICOM coun- tries are subject to the fo l low ing CET rates: 40% for most agricultural imports; and 5% to 20% for most other items. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge, except ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 GRENADA for some manu fac tu red products, for wh ich a rate of 2.5% applies. Imports not granted exemptions from customs du t ies are subject to a general consumption tax (GCT) regime with three broad rates of 10% and 15% for CARICOM countries, and 25% for all other countries. There are three additional GCT rates of 50%, 55%, and 75% that are applied to specific items such as new cars, foreign used cars, and cigarettes, respectively. There are environmental levies of EC$0.25 on each imported glass bottle and of ECS0.50 on each plastic bottle con ta in ing l iqu id ( inc lud ing carbonated and noncarbonated beverages and syrups). The levy also consists of a 1% charge on the c.i.f. value of white goods (durable consumer items) and a 2% charge on the c.i.f. value of imported used cars under five years and 30% charge on cars five years or older. Imports of capital equipment are subject to a m i n im um charge of 5% under the GET and 25% under the consumption tax. However, most capital imports are granted exemptions from import duties, and all capital imports by domestic commodity boards involved in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, or nu tmeg are exempt from import duties, provided that the imports are used for improve- ments in these industries. The Marketing and Na t ional Importing Board is the sole authorized importer of bulk pur- chases of fu ll cream milk, white and brown sugar, and brown rice. State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Proceeds must be surrendered to ADs (commercial banks). n.a. n.a. Licenses are required for trad i t ional export crops (i.e., bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, and minor spices). Licenses are also required to export fresh fru i ts, fish, plants required for the estab- lishment or expansion of any agricultural industry in Grenada, gas cylinders, corals, all minerals, and live sheep. Certain exports, such as birds, live goats, fauna, flora, and items considered part of Grenada's national heritage, are prohibited. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted but require the ap- proval of the MOF whenever a single transaction exceeds EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if all related l iab i l i t ies have been discharged and the investment was registered w i th the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 405 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval For studies abroad, MOF approval is required, and permission is usually granted on presen- tation of documentation of registration and the costs of tuition and other expenses. For transfer of pensions, approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. For family main- tenance and alimony payments, approval is granted upon proof of established liabilities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is gran ted upon proof of imm igrant status. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval The limit for the payment of subscriptions and membership fees is EC$250,000 a transaction. MOF approval is required and is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payment for consu l t ing services and legal fees. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, subject to withholding on income tax, where applicable. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Any single outward capital transaction in excess of EC$250,000 requires exchange control approval. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Certificates of t i t le to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 GRENADA On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not ordinarily permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Direct investments abroad exceeding EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require the approval of the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Cabinet approval via the Industrial Development Corporation is normally required for non- residents to operate manufacturing enterprises and hotels, and an alien landholding license is required for nonresidents to hold both financial and physical property. Nonresident labor services are generally permitted with work permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Labor. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been dis- charged and that the original investment was registered with the MOF. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An alien landholding license must be issued by the Office of the Prime Minister. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Any borrowing abroad by nationals to finance their domestic operations generally requires the approval of the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) ADs may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance ap- proved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not ordinarily permitted, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 407 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan quetzal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market in which the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) purchases foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector and to service its own external debt and intervenes occasionally to moderate undue fluctuations. All foreign ex- change transactions of the public sector must take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the inter- bank market during the day before the previous business day. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Effec t ive January 25, 2002, a forward exchange market is in operation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements For capital transactions In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with special payments agreements. The issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other financial insti- tutions requires prior approval by the Monetary Board. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control There are payments arrangements under the Panama-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Recip- rocal Agreement. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Honduras functioned until 1995, and the Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement functioned through end-2002. Guatemala is a member of the CACM. Yes. The BOG administers the exchange regime. Foreign exchange transactions in the public sector are carried out exclusively through the BOG; those in the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 409 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. How- ever, imports of some agricultural commodities and animal products are subject to tariffs. At present, those products are incorporated in and regulated within the WTO charter as being very sensitive for the Guatemalan economy. The list includes goods considered dangerous to society, such as weapons, certain chemi- cals, and drugs. Weapons may be imported only with the approval of the appropriate department. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Guatemala applies the GET for processed goods from CACM countries, which ranges from zero to 15%, w i th v i r tu a l ly all other intra-CACM trade exempt f rom tariffs. The maximum tar iff rates on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods not produced in Central America are 5% and 10%, respectively, wh i le the tar iff rate on raw materials and interme- diate and capital goods produced in Central America is zero. Some processed products, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and alcohol, which are traded w i th CACM coun tr ies, are subject to ta r i f fs ranging from 1% to 5%. Guatemala's tariff s truc ture continues to exempt certain processed products from the maximum GET rate of 15%. The ta r i ff rates for most footwear, tex t i les, and tires are 27%, 20%, and 17%, respec- t ive ly. In addition, certain agricultural products enjoy safeguard provisions and are subject to tariff rate quotas under WTO rules, which also allow tariffs well above the maximum rate for imports in excess of their quota. Sugar is subject to a quota of 5,000 metric tons a year, with tar iffs of zero w i th in quota and 20% in excess of quota. Other examples are ap- ples (12% and 25%); and wheat f lour (zero and 10%). Rice is subject to a quota of 65,530 metric tons a year, w i th a ta r i ff of 13.1% w i th in quota and 26.3% in excess of quota. These ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 GUATEMALA quotas are adjusted yearly, following discussions between the private sector and the government. A trade agreement exists between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico giving certain tariff benefits to the participants. There is also a trade agreement with the Domini- can Republic. Effective January 16, 2003, the tariff rates for 52 products were temporarily increased up to 40% in some cases in order to offset the short-term loss of revenue due to changes in other taxes. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exports of sugar, apparel, and textiles to the United States are subject to quotas. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special legislation. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. On March 1, 2002, the new Law on Banks and Financial Groups came into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 411 Borrowing abroad Effective March 1, 2002, these transactions are allowed freely. Previously, they required Monetary Board approval. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange The purchase of privately issued securities requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. Investment regulations Effective March 1, 2002, commercial banks and other credit institutions may not lend more than 15% of their total assets to one person or institution, excepting financial transactions with the BOG and the MOF. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective March 1, 2002, banks are required to maintain positions as instructed by the monetary authorities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Effective February 20, 2002, the Monetary Board resolution specifying the currency- matching regulation on assets/liabilities came into effect. The difference between total as- sets and total liabilities (including future payments and contingencies in foreign currency) may not exceed 60% of paid-up capital and reserves. If the difference is negative, it may not exceed 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 25. A forward exchange market began to operate. Arrangements for payments and receipts December 31. The Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement ceased to function. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors March 1. Banks and credit institutions were allowed to borrow abroad freely, March L The new Law on Banks and Financial Groups came into force. March L Commercial banks and other credit institutions were not allowed to lend more than 15% of their total assets to one person or institution, excepting financial transactions with the BOG and the MOF. March 1. Banks are required to maintain positions as instructed by the monetary authorities. February 20. The Monetary Board resolution specifying the currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition came into force. The difference between total assets and total liabilities (including future payments and contingencies in foreign currency) may not exceed 60% of paid-up capital and reserves. If the d ifference is negative, it cannot exceed 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. Imports and import payments January 16. As a temporary measure to offset revenue loss due to other tax charges, the tariff rates for 52 goods were increased up to 40% in some cases. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Guinea is the Guinean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to buy and sell foreign exchange at any rate. The authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market indirectly as condi- tions require and, effective January 1, 2003, the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the Guinean franc is determined every 15 days (previously, it was determined monthly) in the auction market for foreign exchange. However, as the official exchange rate of the Guinean franc has been holding steady w i th in ±1 percent around GF 1,976 per US$1, the exchange arrangement of Guinea has been reclassified, effective January 1, 2002, to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agree- ments. Settlements with countries other than members of the WAMA are made in desig- nated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (CBRG). All payments and transactions among residents must be made or settled in Guinean francs. Guinea ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Romania, and Russia. Settlements with the BCEAO and with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are generally carried out through the WAMA. Exchange control authority is vested in the CBRG, which has delegated to the commercial banks au tho r i ty to (1) sign import descriptions and descriptive import applications; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding airline tickets for travel abroad; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, may be effected by the commercial banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 413 Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The CBRG purchases gold only in Guinean francs at international prices. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restrictions, Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the CBRG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. Exportation of foreign currency is made through the CBRG. Importation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permitted, subject to declara- tion on entry. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks or exchange them for Guinean francs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents are free to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Exporters may hold all of their earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval of the CBRG is required for juridical per- sons and a simple notification to the CBRG is required for natural persons. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of their origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commer- cial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 GUINEA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements The minimum financing requirement is $2,000 or its equivalent. Advance payment requirements Advance payments may be made on the basis of commercial contracts. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Negative list Imports of armaments, ammunitions, and narcotics are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, a fiscal import duty (DFE) of 8%, and a customs duty (DDE) of 7%, with the following exceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a DFE of 6% and a DDE of 2%; and food industry imports, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to a DFE of 8% and a DDE of 2%. In addition, a surtax of 20% to 70% is imposed on all luxury goods, nonalcoholic bever- ages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports by the three semipublic enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Private traders may retain all of their proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold export- ers and vendors may retain all of their proceeds. Semipublic enterprises may retain abroad all of their proceeds and may use them for import payments, operating expenses, and exter- nal debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description aimed at preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption and at identifying capital outflows. Mining sector exports are exempt from this requirement. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds require special authorization from designated agencies. These are applicable to agricultural exports. There are quotas on the export of wild animals and articles of historic or ethnographic interest. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 415 Export taxes Exports of diamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. Other export taxes Mining and petroleum products are subject to other export taxes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are no controls on payments of unloading and storage expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for government operations. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative lim its/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is required for payments of pensions. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide rates for payments of pensions. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. Foreign workers may transfer up to 50% of their taxable income. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are currently no transactions involving bonds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 GUINEA On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. No. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit and guarantee operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment The au tho r iza t ion of the CBRG is requ ired. Inward direct investment There are no l im i ts on amounts that nonresidents may invest in Guinea, and all Guinean and foreign na t iona ls may hold con tro l l ing interests in Gu inean enterprises. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions The au thor iza t ion of the CBRG is required for all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are controls on all these operations. Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) The on ly form of lending to nonresidents that is allowed is overdraft protection on domestic currency checking accounts. Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. The exchange arrangement of Gu inea was reclassified to the category conven- t ional pegged arrangement from the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 417 Exchange arrangement January I. The auction of foreign exchange began to be held every 15 days. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Currency The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. A bank commission of 0.25% is levied on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. It must be surrendered to the treasury in its entirety. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Guinea-Bissau is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special ac- counts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspon- dent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign ac- counts in CFA francs. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The ap- proval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward ex- change cover, and the opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, which is also authorized to collect —either directly or through banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, or judicial agents—any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Settlements with a country outside the Operations Account area must be formally approved by the customs administration. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 419 Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are suspended. In addition, ship- ments of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized in- termediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, and with the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. The holding of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations prohibit any transfer with the aim of increasing a resident's foreign holdings, unless approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of pur- chases by nonresidents of any foreign currency on the official exchange market. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 GUINEA-BISSAU Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports, regardless of whether they invo lve the use of off ic ial or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, p r ima r i ly for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued auto- ma t ica l ly after verification of invoice prices for goods to be taxed. Negative l ist Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates; zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on which payments fa ll due. The authorized intermediary bank must then transfer them to the BCEAO via the bank of issue. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exports requ i re a prior export license. On ly exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases and are for statistical purposes. There are no products of which the exportation is reserved solely for the pub l ic sector. Yes. Cashew nut exports are subject to a special tax of 10%, except those to ECOWAS coun- tries. Other ag r icu l tu ral exports are subject to a rural property tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Foreign workers' wages In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le for payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Re turn ing resident travelers must surrender unspent foreign exchange exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000. Information is not ava i lab le for payment of pensions, fam i ly maintenance, or alimony. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 421 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all incomes earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of these investments must be financed w i th borrowing from abroad. The liquidation of foreign investment must be reported to the MOF, and the reinvestment of proceeds is subject to prior authorization. If authorization is not given for the reinvestment, the proceeds in for- eign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Capital transfers to the WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, except for direct in- vestments, which are subject to prior declaration. Certain borrowing operations are also subject to prior authorization. Prior authorization is waived with respect to (1) borrowing guaranteed by the government of Guinea-Bissau and (2) foreign shares that are similar to securities, the issuance, public announcement, or sale of which has already been approved in Gu inea-B issau. There is also special surveillance of calls for subscribed funds for pur- poses of deposit w i th foreign nationals, corporations, or institutions, as well as of any pub- lic announcement for the purpose of investing funds abroad or subscribing to foreign con- struction or real estate operations. These special provisions also apply to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell the shares of resident companies abroad. If the effect of such op- erations is to place resident Guinea-Bissau companies under foreign control, the foreign investors must make a prior declaration to the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 GUINEA-BISSAU Controls on derivatives and other instruments These investments are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments, except for commodity and security call and put options, which residents may freely purchase abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the due date of the payment does not exceed 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. There are no controls on credits in connection with services rendered. In these cases, no deadline is set for the date on which payment falls due. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment If these transactions take place between a direct investment company established in Guinea-Bissau and its parent company situated abroad, they are considered direct invest- ments and are subject to prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. The Investment Code provides for incentives to investments and protection against the nationalization and expropriation of assets. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents require no t if ica t ion to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions require notification to the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 423 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations involve commercial credits. Other loans granted to nonresidents are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, after the approval of the BCEAO. Lending locally in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Banking regulations make no distinction between resident, nonresident, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Currency The cu r rency of Guyana is the Guyana do l l a r. Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f l o a t i ng w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed pa th for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Guyana do l lar is determined in the cambio market, although the au tho r i t i es in te rvene in the fore ign exchange market as cond i t ions require. The Bank of Guy ana (BOG) conduc ts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio exchange rate by averag ing quo ta t ions of the three largest dealers on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance w i th the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. No. No. The o n ly a r rangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the o f f ic ial sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in dor- mant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been given for deposits made af ter end -Ma rch 1989. O f f i c i al cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requ iremen ts Payments arrangements B i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts a r rangemen ts n .a. Operative There are arrangemen ts w i th all CARICOM central banks. R e g i o n al a r r ang em en ts Guyana is a member of the CARICOM. Adm in i s tra t ion of control No. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN s a n c t i o ns Payments arrears O f f i c i al P r i v a te Res t r ic t ions are app l ied in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolutions 1333, 1368, 1373, and 1390. Arrears, w h i ch are due to ongo ing nego t ia t ions under the Heav i ly Indebted Poor Countries I n i t i a t i v e, exist w i th Argen t ina, China, India, Kuwait, Libya, Serbia and Montenegro, and the Un i ted A rab Em ira tes. Arrears exist on certain dormant accounts h o l d i ng domestic currency deposits equivalent in v a l ue to p end ing app l ica t ions for fore ign exchange. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 425 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form except for num isma t ic purposes and jewelry, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits endorsed by the Guyana Gold Board. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers en ter ing or leaving Guyana must declare foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$ 10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are approved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require im- ported inputs for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. No. The balances of these accounts may be converted at the preva i l ing cambio exchange rate. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by commercial banks, without the prior approval of the central bank, for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other coun- tries temporarily residing in Guyana, nonresidents attached to diplomatic missions or inter- national organizations, branches of companies incorporated outside Guyana, and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars and may be credited with noncash instruments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the banking sys- tem. These accounts may also be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other external ac- counts, for withdrawals by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The BOG prepares a statement of convertible currency receipts and payments to monitor projected flows. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 GUYANA Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction. Most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Certain payments for official imports effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG require the BOG's prior approval. Requirements are related ma in ly to petroleum products. Documents required include in- voices, bills of lading, and certificates of origin. There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum products and some 20 items affecting national security, public health and safety, and the environment. Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, f ru i t, and processed f ru it items from all non- CARICOM sources are restricted, subject to import-licensing controls. The fourth phase of the CARICOM GET is applied to all imports from sources outside the CARICOM. Duty rates range from 5% to 20%, except for agricultural products, for which the rate is 40%. Effective December 6, 2002, a duty rate of 125% applies to imports of chicken from non-CARICOM sources, but those from CARICOM countries are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of gold and wildlife. Gold exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferential markets and for wild- l ife exports. There are levies on exports of rice. An export duty is applied to exports of timber, bauxite, sugar, live birds, and aquarium fish. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All types of credit operations are controlled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 427 Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending to nonresident enterprises. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending locally in foreign ex- change, except for lending to an authorized dealer. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are being monitored. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Imports and import payments December 6. The duty on chicken imported from non-CARICOM sources was increased to 125% from 40%. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of H a i ti is the H a i t i an gourde. The do l lar c i rcu la tes free ly and is genera l ly accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. C lass i f ica t ion Managed f l o a t i ng w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed path for the exchange rate A l though the exchange rate is determined by market forces in the exchange market, the Bank of the Repub l ic of Haiti (BRH) uses its foreign exchange reserves frequently to meet foreign exchange expenditures of the government, and the exchange rate is influenced by the amount of these transactions. The BRH operates a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and se l l ing rates of the do l lar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by banks, with money changers fo l low ing t h is market. In l ight of the BRH 's activities in the exchange market, and the ir impact on exchange movements, effective January 1, 2002, the exchange arrangement of Haiti has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Ex change tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i l a t e r al paymen ts a r rangemen ts Operative R eg ion al a r rangemen ts Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n .a. H a i t i 's debt to I ta ly has been rescheduled for 2028. H a i ti has been a member of the CARICOM since J u ly 1999. However, Ha i t i 's actual acces- sion to the CARICOM took place on Ju ly 1, 2002. Adm in i s t ra t ion of control In terna t ional secur ity restrictions Payments arrears O f f ic ial No. n .a. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Con tro ls on domestic owne r sh ip and /or trade Residents may ho ld and acqu i re gold coins in Ha i ti for numismatic purposes, 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on external trade HAITI 429 The BRH has the ex c lu s ive r ight to pu rchase gold domes t ica l ly and to export gold in the form of coins, m ineral dust, or bars. Exports of gold require, in addition, pr ior au tho r iza t ion f rom the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t ry (MC I) and the M in i s t ry of F inance and Eco- nomic A f fa i r s, as we ll as an endorsement from the MC I, before customs clearance. How- ever, comme rc ial impor ts of articles c o n t a i n i ng a sma ll amount of gold, such as gold watches, are free ly permitted and do not require an import license or other au thor iza t ion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited w i th export proceeds, with t rans fe rs from abroad received by exchange houses, or w i th receipts from maritime agencies and nongovernment organizations. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are f o ur standard ta r i ff rates- -zero, 5%, 10%, and 15% —and the m a x im um t a r i ff for most non-CARICOM items is 20%. Several goods have special tar iff rates -gasoline, 57.8%; and cement, r ice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic turnover tax is charged on the c.i.f va lue p lus import duties. All imports, except for inpu ts used by certain export indus tr ies, are subject to a 4% ver if ica t ion fee. As Ha i ti is a member of the CARICOM, numerous exemptions and suspensions have been negotiated to avoid tariff increases under the CET. These suspensions and extensions are valid un t il 2005. The suspension mechanism can also be used in case of supp ly shortages and local price increases for certain goods w i t h in the common market. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 HAITI Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. n.a. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transactions, however, information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments or on the transfer of pensions, family maintenance, and alimony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Investments require prior government approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions n.a. n.a. n.a. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending may not exceed 50% of deposits in foreign exchange. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls A reserve requirement ratio of 31% applies to both gourde- and dollar-denominated depos- its at commercial banks, and a ratio of 19% applies to both gourde- and dollar-denominated deposits at savings and housing banks. n. r. n.r. Lending may not exceed 50% of deposits in foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 431 Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities An open foreign exchange position limit of 8% applies to capital and reserves. On nonresident assets and liabilities An open foreign exchange position limit of 8% applies to capital and reserves, Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. The exchange regime of Haiti was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 1. Haiti formally acceded to the CARICOM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: J u ly 1, 1950. Currency The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the lempira is determined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are required to sell all of their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Participants in auctions (banks, exchange houses, and private ind iv idu a l s) bid at a price that may not d i f fer from the base price set by the CBH by more than ± 7%. The base exchange rate is adjusted every five auctions by the CBH in accordance w i th the in f l a t ion d i f fe ren t ial between Honduras and its main trading partners and the exchange rates of its main trading partners' currencies vis-a-vis the dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of foreign exchange from its agents. The m in imum amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Individuals wishing to pur- chase foreign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between $5,000 and $300,000 or the equ iva len t. Foreign exchange agents may make purchases for their own account to meet private demands of less than $5,000; the maximum amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased for th is purpose is $50,000 for commercial banks and $15,000 for fore ign exchange houses. Foreign exchange agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the p u b l ic of less than $5,000 and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Yes. Use of fore ign exchange among residents All payment ob l ig a t ions to be made in Honduras must be settled in lempiras, except for those contracted and documented in a foreign currency. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Honduras and Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, and Guatemala func t ioned u n t il 1995. Reg ional arrangements Hondu ras is a member of the CACM. Trade transac t ions w i th the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies or in do l l a r s. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. No. 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 433 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must ho ld these deposits in (1) fore ign currency notes in the ir vau l ts; (2) deposits at the CBH; (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad; (4) inves tmen ts in h igh- l iqu id i ty fore ign ins t rumen ts; or (5) export and import f i n a n c i ng in s t rum en t s. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Effective January 10, 2002, banks may hold accounts in euros and other currencies with correspondent banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must hold these deposits in: (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults; (2) deposits at the CBH; (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad; (4) investments in h igh- l iqu id i ty fore ign instruments; or (5) export and import f inanc ing ins t rumen ts. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. The tariff rate on capital goods and raw ma ter ia ls is zero, on intermediate products the rate is 5-10% and on f in ished goods it is 15% w i th some exceptions (e.g., beef, cigarettes, fer- t i l ize rs, and medicines). The tariff rate on goods produced in the CACM area is zero. There are du ty - f ree indu s t r ial and ag r icu l tu ral processing zones that bene f it from ta r i ff exemptions. The tou r ism indu s t ry also benef i ts f rom tar iff exemptions for a limited period. E f fec t ive Apr il 1, 2002, ta r i f fs on most imports of capital goods were abolished. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All export earnings, except those f rom trade w i th o ther Cen tral Ame r ican coun t r ies, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses w i t h in a period of 20 to 85 days. Commercial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 HONDURAS banks and exchange houses are required to sell all purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30% of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized external obligations. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Licenses are not required, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. On February 1, 2002, the Agricultural Export Zones Law came into effect, providing for the creation of tax-free industrial parks for the packaging and shipping of nontraditional agricultural goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are required to fill out a form for statistical purposes. There are no limits on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms are permitted with the exception of defense-related and hazardous material-producing industries. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations The approval of congress is required for all public sector foreign borrowing. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Lending by commercial banks-to nonresidents requires CBH authorization. To residents from nonresidents External borrowing by a commercial bank is limited to three times the amount of its capital and reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 435 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Lending by commercial banks to nonresidents requires CBH authorization. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments are permitted in all sectors, w i th the exception of defense-related industries, and small-scale and commercial industries. Investments in hazardous material-producing industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secre- tary of Industry and Trade. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are location and size limitations. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing by a commercial bank is limited to three times the amount of its capital and reserves. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required, Financial institutions may lend up to 50% of their foreign exchange deposits domestically in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks, nonbank financial institutions, and savings and loan associations are subject to a nonremunerated reserve requirement of 12% on all deposits denominated in both domes- tic and foreign currencies. Liquid asset requirements Financial institutions are required to deposit 38% of their l iqu id assets in a foreign bank. Credit controls Up to 50% of funds from foreign exchange deposits may be lent for export-related activi- ties, and up to 15% of this amount may be lent for other purposes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Resident accounts January JO. Resident banks were allowed to maintain accounts in euros and other curren- cies with correspondent banks. Imports and import payments April I. Tariffs on most capital goods were abolished. Exports and export proceeds February I. The Agr icu l tural Export Zones Law came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: Janua ry 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of Hunga ry is the Hunga r ian fo r in t. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged exchange rate w i t h in ho r izon tal bands The Hunga r ian fo r int trades against the euro w i th in a band of ±15% around the central par i ty, wh ich is fixed to the euro at Ft 276.1 per €1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. All banks may engage in forward transactions at exchange rates that are negotiated freely between the banks and the ir customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments arrangements No. Operative Inoperative There are agreements w i th Braz il and Ecuador, under wh ich outstanding balances are set- tled every 90 days. There is an agreement w i th Cambodia for the settlement of outstanding transferable or c lea r ing r u b le balances w i th sh ipmen ts of goods. Reg ional arrangements Hung a ry is a member of the CEFTA. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Hung a ry ma in ta ins payment res tr ic t ions against Iraq and Libya. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Impor ts and exports of more than Ft 1 m i l l i on or its equ iva lent in foreign currency must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld domes t ica l ly Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 437 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fo re ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quo tas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are requ i red for a number of products, inc lud ing imports destined for the settle- ment of ou ts tand ing balances in transferable or clearing rubles. About 95% of Hungarian imports are f u l ly l ibera l ized. Yes. Licenses are requ ired for products f a l l ing under the global quota on consumer goods. Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Goods for personal use brought in by re tu rn ing Hungar ian travelers are subject to a general import du ty of 15%, based on the actual invo ice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 30,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs duty, goods for personal use up to a va lue equ iv a l ent to 40% of the ir earnings. Goods imported into Hungary are subject to customs du t ies in accordance w i th established and published tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Expor ts of items in c lud ed in the negative l ist requ i re a license. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 HUNGARY Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Financial institutions must report all foreign borrowing to the National Bank of Hungary. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Lending is allowed within the following rules: (1) a bank may not have an aggregate lend- ing with an individual borrower of more than 25% of its adjusted capital; and (2) country risk rules prescribe the placement of specific reserves against possible losses on credits extended to problem countries, the list of which is based on the assessment of the NBH and published by the MOF. Medium- and long-term lending to nonresidents from OECD member countries may be effected freely. Nonresident liabilities with a maturity of less than two years (denominated either in forint or foreign currency) are subject to the same 5% (prior to August 1, 2002, 6%) reserve re- quirement as resident liabilities with a maturity of less than two years. Nonresident liabili- ties denominated in for int or in foreign exchange with maturities of more than two years are exempt from reserve requirements. Reserve requirements are remunerated at a rate of inter- est of 4.75% (prior to September 1, 2002, 4.25%). The gross aggregate position is limited to 30% of the bank's adjusted capital. Banks should adhere to the limit on a daily basis, which is applied equally to resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. Provisions concerning insurers remain in force until the act promulgating the treaty on the accession of Hungary to the European Union comes into force. When this treaty comes into force, assets are expected to be localized in OECD countries, and currency-matching rules are expected to be applied to assets/liabilities composition. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents HUNGARY 439 Assets constituting the mathematical reserves of an insurer may be invested only in assets issued in Hungary and real estate situated in Hungary. In addition to this general limitation, the following specific rules apply concerning the investments of an insurer: (1) technical reserves and insurance capital may not be invested in real estate situated abroad; (2) assets constituting the security capital and technical reserves of an insurer may not be invested in mortgage loans in which the real estate used as collateral is situated outside Hungary; (3) assets constituting the security capital and technical reserves of an insurer may not be placed in a current account held by a foreign credit institution; and (4) due to the specific treatment of investments in mortgage bonds issued by domestic mortgage loan companies (i.e., credit institutions), the ceiling on investment in debt securities issued by domestic credit institutions is higher than on that by foreign credit institutions (45%, compared with 20%). Mandatory private pension funds may not invest more than 30% of their assets in foreign securities. In the case of voluntary pension funds, a government decree limits the share of foreign investments to 30% of the fund 's invested assets. There are no specific l im i ta t ions on the foreign investment of investment (mutual) funds. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The regulations governing securities issued by nonresidents apply, Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The mathematical reserves may be invested only in domestic securities and real estate situ- ated in Hungary. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions August 1. The reserve requirement on nonresident and resident foreign and domestic cur- rency liabilities with maturities of less than two years was reduced to 5% from 6%. September I. The rate of remuneration on reserve requirements was increased to 4.75% from 4.25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. C lass if ica t ion Independen t ly f loa t ing The external v a lue of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward contracts may be negotiated freely in all currencies. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n .r. No. The M in is try of Commerce (MC) has ultimate responsibility for imports and, in consultation with the Central Bank of Iceland (CBI), for capital movements and foreign exchange regulation. The MC implements the control on inward foreign direct investment. The CBI licenses the foreign exchange dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting requirements for statistical purposes. International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on exports of weapons and other m i l i ta ry equ ipment to Serbia and Montenegro and trade restrictions are in force against Iraq. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad All accounts in domestic banks must be iden t if ied by name and iden t i f ica t ion number. Residents shou ld inform the CBI on the opening of bank accounts abroad. However, this requ i rement has not been enforced. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 441 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n . r. n .r. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must report to the CBI the mon th ly pos i t ions of nonresident accounts. All accounts in domestic banks must be iden t i f ied by name and iden t if ica t ion number. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of goods and services are permitted free ly, except when international agreements or p rov is ions in special leg is la t ion provide otherwise. Nega t ive list Open general l icenses Live animals and certain agr icu l tural products require health certificates. Imports by tou r i s ts and fo re ign v is i to rs are du ty free w i th in general l im i ts on the total, as we ll as on i n d i v i d u al merchandise va lue, and quan t i ta t ive l im i ts are set on alcohol and tobacco by the customs au tho r i t ies. Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. State import monopoly Tobacco may be imported on ly under state trading arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requ irements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of m i l i ta ry, fisheries, and agr icu l tural products require licenses from the Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 ICELAND Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The purchase of shares or other equity capital may be affected by laws on foreign investment in Iceland. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regulated by a special law on foreign investment: (1) foreign investment is prohibited in the fisheries and primary fish, processing industry because only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered entities whose foreign ownership does not exceed 25% may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish-processing facilities; this limit may be extended to 33% if the foreign investment in domestic entities does not exceed 5% of the total equity; (2) investments by foreign governments and public authorities are prohibited in Iceland; the MC may grant exemptions from this restriction and the restrictions below, which do not apply to residents of the EEA; (3) there are controls on the ownership of, or right to harness, waterfalls and geothermal energy, where restrictions apply to investment in power production and distribution companies; (4) investments in domestic airlines may not exceed 49%; and (5) the above as well as other special laws also stipulate restricted conditions for defining the residency of managers and majority of voting power in holding companies. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts The conditions for owning real estate in Iceland are the following: (1) individual owners must have a domicile in Iceland; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citizens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, with at least 80% ownership by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors must be Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 443 three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits The CBI regulates the net foreign exchange position of the banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Portfolio investments of pension funds are restricted to listed securities in organized markets within OECD countries or in other markets approved by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Foreign exchange exposure of pension funds is limited to 50% of their total assets. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Currency The cu r rency of Ind ia is the Ind ian rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of Ind ia (RBI), wh ich in tervenes per iod ica l ly in the interbank market, purchases and sells spot and forward dollars from and to authorized dealers (ADs) in the interbank market at the market exchange rate. No. No. ADs are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. The RBI may enter into swap transactions with ADs, under which it buys or sells spot dollars and sells or buys forward do l lars for ma tur i t ies ava i lab le in the market. Until December 21, 2002, when this limit was removed, banks could access th is market up to the equivalent of US$50 m i l l ion. A resident may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge against exchange risks. ADs may also prov ide forward exchange cover to foreign institutional investors (FIIs) up to the f u ll extent of the ir investments in debt instruments and equities. FIIs may hedge the entire market value of their investments in equities. Non re s ident Ind ians (NRIs) and overseas corporate bodies (OCBs) may enter into forward contracts w i th ADs to hedge the amount of dividend due to them or the balances held in the ir foreign currency nonres ident (FCNR) accounts or nonresident external accounts. They are also e l ig ib le to have forward cover in respect to the ir investments in portfolio invest- ment schemes in the same manner as FIIs described above. The Export Credit Guaran tee Corporation of Ind ia, Ltd. (ECGCI) provides protection against exchange f lu c tu a t ion w i th respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years af ter the award of a contract. Exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGCI. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided in to two groups: (1) member coun t r ies of the ACU (except Bhu tan and Nepal) and (2) the external group (all other coun- tries). In the f irst group, all payments for e l ig ib le current international transactions, except payments re la t ing to trave l, must be settled through the ACU arrangement. In other cases, payments may be settled in any permitted currency. Export-import transactions financed out of loans from in terna t ional f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are settled outside the ACU mecha- n ism. Settlements of trade are made through the ACU dollar accounts, which are replen- ished th rough the RBI. Payments to coun tr ies in the second group may be made in Indian rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency, and receipts from these countries may be obtained in Indian rupees from accounts of a bank situated in any of these countries or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may apply to exports under l ines of credit extended by the government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency INDIA 445 India is a member of the ACU. Although Bhutan and Nepal are members of the ACU, trade with Bhutan and Nepal is settled outside the ACU mechanism. Subject to permission from the Nepal Rastra Bank, Nepalese residents may import from India against payment in freely convertible currency, in addition to the ex is t ing system of payment in Indian rupees; such payments must be effected through the ACU mechanism. Transactions between all other ACU member countries are settled through ACU dollar accounts. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the general policy laid down by the government, in consultation with the RBI. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to ADs. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines con t inue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India, as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Apart from a few agencies authorized by the government, 13 banks are authorized by the RBI to import gold for sale in the domestic market. The export of personal jewelry by travelers is regulated under the Ministry of Commerce's export and import policy baggage rules. Other rules as regards the export and import of gold are spelled out in the Export and Import Policy (2002-2007). In general, the exportation of rupee notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is prohib- ited. Exports of rupee notes to Bhutan or Nepal in denominations higher than Rs 100 are also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take w i th them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 5,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. An authorized person (AP) may transfer abroad foreign currency acquired in the normal course of business. Any person may take out foreign exchange obtained from an AP and any unspent foreign currency owned or brought in du r ing a previous visit. Any non-Indian resident person may take out unspent foreign exchange not exceeding the amount brought in (the amount must be declared if it exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000 in banknotes and coins or US$10,000 in banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks). The importation of rupee notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring in rupee notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Bhutan and Nepal. Indian travelers may b r ing in up to Rs 5,000 a person if they took out this amount when traveling abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds US$10,000 or its equivalent and/or if the aggregate value of for- eign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds US$5,000 or its equivalent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 INDIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident ac- counts. However, residents of Nepal must obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Approval of the RBI is required for the opening of foreign currency accounts, held both domestically or abroad, except for those covered by general permission granted by the RBI. Exporters may open exchange earners' foreign currency (EEFC) ac- counts. These accounts are to be held only in non-interest bearing accounts, and no credit fac i l i ty, be it funded or nonfunded, may be made available against the balances. These ac- counts may be used to (1) open offices abroad and to meet the expenses of these offices; (2) make investments from the account balance in overseas jo int ventures up to the limit of US$100 million without reference to the RBI; and (3) pay all trade-related expenses in foreign exchange. Individuals residing in India may open foreign currency accounts desig- nated as resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts with foreign exchange from pensions or other payments from overseas employers or with other receipts —such as gifts or inheri- tances —that are permitted under the regulations. The balances held in such accounts may be used free ly outside India. Effec t ive November 1, 2002, ind iv idua ls are permitted to maintain resident foreign cur- rency (domestic) (RFCD) accounts at a licensed bank that is also an AD. These accounts, which are non-interest bearing, may be credited with foreign exchange earned from the following sources: (1) obtained from exports of goods or services; (2) gifts or honoria while abroad; (3) legal transactions with nonresidents in India; and (4) remaining from travel abroad. As long as the foreign exchange is acquired by one of these means, there is no overall limit on the account balance. The balance may be used for any purpose permissible under current foreign exchange regulations applicable to resident. These accounts are in addition to existing RFC accounts and the fac i l i ty for retaining up to the equivalent of US$2,000 in foreign banknotes and/or foreign currency traveler's checks. Other types of accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval (or a general permission granted by the RBI) is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts FCNR accounts denominated in dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin and by OCBs. These accounts may be opened on ly in the form of term deposits w i th a m in imum maturity of one year and a maximum maturity of three years. All debits and credits permitted with respect to nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts are permissible with respect to these accounts as well. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the RBI. ADs are allowed to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of different persons maintained with the same AD or other ADs for any purpose, subject to certain conditions. The current FCNR accounts operate in the same manner as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) bears the exchange risk. Foreign embassies, missions, and diplomats are permitted to open foreign currency ac- counts with ADs w i thout the approval of the RBI, subject to certain conditions. Accounts related to all foreign countries other than Bhutan and Nepal are treated as nonresident ac- counts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident ordinary rupee (NOR) accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 447 normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during a visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. ADs may debit NOR accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by RBI regulations. ADs may also permit transfers abroad of current income earned within India by the account holder, once the applicable taxes have been paid. ADs may also allow remit- tances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million from current balances or sales of assets, subject to certain conditions and payments of applicable taxes. NRER accounts may be opened for NRIs and nonresident persons of Indian origin (PIOs), or for OCBs and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by NRIs or nonresident PIOs. In addition to ADs holding licenses under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), some state cooperative banks, certain urban cooperative banks, and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with (1) new funds remitted through banking channels from any country; (2) the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder; (3) foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India; (4) in- come from authorized investments; and (5) the transfer of funds from other NRER or FCNR accounts. ADs are allowed to transfer funds freely between NRER accounts of dif- ferent persons held with the same AD or different ADs. The accounts may be debited (1) for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad; and (2) for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Investments in shares of Indian companies, in partnership firms and the like, or in immovable property may be made, provided that such an investment or purchase is covered by FEMA regulations or that general or special permission has been granted by the RBI. Interest on deposits in non- resident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from personal income tax, al- though juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transfer- able. The balances held in such accounts by natural persons are exempt from wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from gift tax. Diplomatic missions and their personnel and family members may open rupee accounts with ADs. NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs that are at least 60% owned, directly or indirectly, by NRIs, and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the interest of the beneficiary is irrevocably held by such persons, are permitted to maintain nonresident (external) accounts. Balances in such accounts are freely convertible into foreign currency. Opening such accounts in the name of Pakistan or Bangladeshi nationals, even if they are of Indian origin, requires RBI approval. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports ADs must submit documentary evidence to the RBI and follow up on records of payments made for import transactions in excess of the equivalent of US$25,000. If the amount of the transaction is less than US$100,000, the AD is permitted to accept either (1) a copy of the bill of entry for home consumption from exchange control or (2) a certificate from the chief executive officer or an auditor of the importing company stating that the goods for which payments have been made were imported into India; further, the importing company must be listed on a stock exchange in India and have a net worth of at least Rs 1 billion on the date of the last audited balance sheet or be an entity of the government of India or a public sector company. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of capital goods are liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 Positive l ist Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements INDIA The importation of the fo l low ing is restricted: (1) certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; (2) safety, security, and related items; (3) seeds, plants, and animals; (4) insecticides and pesticides; (5) drugs and pharmaceuticals; (6) chemicals and allied items re la t ing to the small-scale sector; and (7) some consumer goods and certain other items. Importation is prohibited of tallow, fat and/or oils rendered or unrendered of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals ( inc lud ing the ir parts and products), and ivory. Imports f rom Iraq are also proh ib i ted except in cases where pr ior approval of the re levant commit- tee of the UN Security Council has been obtained. There are 20 tariff rates with an unweighted average of 30%. Special customs duties, addi- tional customs duties, and special additional customs duties also apply. An additional cus- toms du ty is applied to gasoline and high-speed diesel o i l, and some items are also subject to specific duties. The importation of certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible oils, seeds, and cereals is channeled through the state trad ing enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Corpo- ra t ion Ltd., M ine ra ls and Metals Trading Corporation of Ind ia Ltd., State Trading Corpora- tion of India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months of shipment unless otherwise specified by the RBI. Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the RBI are allowed a period of up to 15 mon ths to realize export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from an AD if the export proceeds are not realized w i th in the prescribed period. The RBI also adm in is ters a scheme under which eng ineer ing goods (capital goods and consumer du rab les) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the f u ll export va lue is paid in ins ta l lmen ts over more than six months. Exporters are permitted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign cur- rency accounts with banks in Ind ia. In the case of 100% export-oriented businesses, those in export-processing zones, and those in hardware/software techno logy parks, up to 70% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Un i ts in a special economic zone (SEZ) may credit all of the ir exchange receipts to the ir EEFC accounts. Corporate exporters are permit- ted to extend trade-related advances to the ir importer c l ien ts out of the ir EEFC accounts w i thout ob ta in ing RBI approval. ADs are permitted to allow u t i l iza t ion of funds held in EEFC accounts for mak ing payments for current and capital transactions that are permissi- b le under FEMA regu la t ions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n .a. n .a. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are requ i red for exports of a few goods, e.g., m ine ral ores and concentrates, and chemicals. Licenses are also required for exports of goods that are covered by international treaty obligations regarding security and the env ironmen t. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Res iden ts may ob ta in foreign exchange for bona f ide cu r rent account transactions with some exceptions, such as 11 items related to pub l ic sector expenses and other items listed in this section. Rem i t tances are allowed, subject to certain cond i t ions, provided that all current taxes and o ther l i a b i l i t i es have been cleared. The RBI allows b ranches of foreign compan ies operating in Ind ia to rem it prof i ts to th e ir head offices w i thout the prior approval of the RBI. Foreign banks do not need RBI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 449 approval for remittances of profits (net of taxes) earned in the normal course of business with the ir head offices. The remittance is subject to compliance with the Banking Act and RBI directives. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are the equivalent of US$10,000 a year and US$25,000 a trip for personal and business travel, respectively, regardless of the period of stay. Travel-related expenses ex- ceeding the limits require RBI approval. Up to the equivalent of US$2,000 that is unused may be retained inde f in i te ly. Any additional amounts must be surrendered or credited to the person's RFCD account within 90 or 180 days for cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Foreign exchange is not made available for travel to Bhutan or Nepal or for transactions with residents of these countries. Indicative limits/bona fide test ADs may release foreign exchange in certain cases beyond indicative limits. Personal payments Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Seventeen types of personal expenses are subject to limits, and amounts exceeding these limits require RBI approval. ADs have the power to release foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$50,000 for overseas medical costs, subject to documentary requirements. ADs may also release foreign exchange for higher education abroad on the basis of cost estimates from the university or institution abroad. ADs may remit up to equivalent of US$5,000 a year for maintenance of a resident's dependents abroad. ADs may allow remittances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million a year for any purpose, subject to payment of appropriate taxes. Further, if the funds are the proceeds from the sale of immovable property, the property must have been owned for at least ten years. Foreign workers are permitted to remit their entire net salaries to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses, subject to the pay- ment of applicable taxes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Persons going abroad for any purpose (except for employment or emigration) may use in- ternational credit cards (ICCs) for all purposes, including for the purchase of articles for personal use, subject to the limits established by the card provider. The basic travel quota may also be obtained through the use of credit cards. The use of ICCs is allowed for im- ports of books, computer software, and other items through the Internet, with the exception of proh ib i ted items, such as lottery tickets, sweepstakes participation, banned or proscribed subscriptions, and payments for call-back services. Debit and ATM cards may be used for any purpose for which foreign exchange may be purchased from an AD. Other payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Up to 50% of receipts may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. In the case of export-oriented un i ts, un i ts created in export-processing zones, software tech- nology parks, or electronic maintenance technology parks, 70% of receipts may be retained in these accounts. Units in an SEZ may credit all of their foreign exchange receipts to the EEFC account. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 INDIA Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents FIIs are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secon- dary markets, inc lud ing equity and other securities, and in instruments of companies listed or to be listed on the stock exchanges in India. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated gov- ernment securities, either on behalf of clients or by using proprietary funds. FIIs are re- quired to register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). For FIIs regis- tered for investments in equities, investments in equity and debt instruments must be in a ratio of 70% to 30%. However, FIFs sub-accounts may set up separately 100% debt funds that may invest their portfolio in debt instruments within the overall approved debt ceiling. Portfolio investments in the primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 10% of the issued share capital for individual FII holdings and 24% (this ceiling may be raised to sectoral ceilings as applicable, provided the general meeting of the company passes a spe- cial resolution) of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depositary receipts (GDRs), and convertibles in the euromarket. Nonresidents may not make portfolio invest- ments in companies engaged in news media. Under the portfolio investment scheme, the individual ceiling for NRIs, OCBs, and PIOs is 5% of the paid-up capital, and their aggregate investment ceilings are 10% of the paid-up share capital of a company. In the case of companies listed on the stock exchange, the ceil- ing may be raised to 24% of paid-up capital by passing a special resolution in the general meeting. OCBs are prohibited from making any new purchases under the scheme. Nonresidents are not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In the case of securi- ties of Indian companies held by nonresidents, transfers to a resident, other than by sale on the stock exchange, require RBI permission. Transfers of sale proceeds are permitted, sub- ject to tax, provided no controls were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds while approving the original investment. Transfers between two nonresidents do not require per- mission from the RBI, except where the recipient has a f inanc ial or technical collaboration in the same or a related field as the company whose shares are being transferred. Transfers from NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs to nonresidents other than NRIs, PIOs, or OCBs require RBI approval. RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any foreign security. In the case of a sale of foreign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to India is required, unless otherwise specified. General permission has been granted by the RBI to residents to hold, own, transfer, or invest in foreign currency or foreign securities outside India if the currency or security was acquired or held by the person while residing outside India, was received through an inheritance or as a gift from a person who was residing outside India, or was acquired during the pre-zero period (i.e., prior to Ju ly 8, 1947). ADs are authorized to approve remittances by resident employees of foreign companies and their joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries, in which the foreign company holds not less than 51% equity for acquisitions of shares of the foreign company under an employee stock option scheme, subject to certain conditions. Similarly, applications are considered from employees of Indian software companies for remittances of the equivalent of US$10,000 in a five-year period for acquiring shares in overseas jo int ventures or who l ly owned subsidiaries of In- dian companies, subject to certain conditions. The RBI also permits employees of Indian software companies to purchase foreign securities under the American depositary receipt (ADR) and GDR linked stock option schemes, provided that the consideration for purchase does not exceed the equ iva lent of US$50,000 in a five-year period. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 451 Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Convertible bonds in foreign currency may be issued up to the equivalent of US$50 million a fiscal year through the automatic route without RBI approval. NRIs and OCRs (predominantly those at least 60% owned by NRIs and nonresident PIOs) are allowed to invest in money market mutual funds floated by commercial banks and pub- lic or private sector financial institutions with authorization from the RBI or the SEBI on a nonrepatriation basis. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI approval. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase such instruments abroad without the authorization of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Resident companies require general or specific permission from the RBI to issue securities to NRIs or OCBs. These transactions, when made by NRIs or OCBs, do not require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing of collective investment securities by nonresidents on local markets in India is not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may make equity investments in listed companies that have at least a 10% hold- ing in an Indian company. Resident companies may not invest more than 25% of their net assets in this way. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents ADs may offer forward contracts of NRIs and OCBs and may allow NRIs to purchase for- ward contracts to hedge on investments that were made in India after January 1, 1993. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs are allowed to purchase hedge instruments for corporate clients and for their own asset/liability management. Exporters and importers are also allowed to hedge price expo- sures on commodities for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A commercial credit of up to six months is allowed for exports on documents-against- acceptance terms. Contracts for exports involving payments to be realized beyond the nor- mal period of six months are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permit- ted, depending on the credit terms offered, the commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. This applies for turnkey, construction, and service contracts undertaken by Indian exporters on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the Export-Import Bank (EXIM Bank) offers credits to foreign buyers in connection with the export of capital goods and turnkey projects in India in participation with commercial banks in India. The EXIM Bank considers the creditworthiness, standing, and financial position of the overseas borrower; the economic viability of the project; the standing of the Indian exporter; and so forth. Prior to September 27, 2002, proposals for short-term credits —buyers' credits and suppli- ers' credits or lines of credit by firms or companies —for f inanc ing imports of goods and services for a period of more than six months, but less than three years, were considered by the RBI on terms and conditions in connection with the terms offered in overseas markets. Effective this date, ADs may approve such proposals for periods of less than three years for up to the equivalent of US$20 million an import transaction, provided the charge for the credit does not exceed LIBOR plus 50 basis points for credits up to one year or LIBOR plus ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 INDIA F inanc ial credits 125 basis po in ts for periods between one and three years. Exporters are allowed to raise external commercial f inanc ing of up to three times their average annual foreign exchange earnings du r ing the prev ious three years, subject to a max imum of US$200 m i l l ion or its equ iva lent w i th a m i n im um average ma tur i ty of three years for up to US$20 m i l l ion, and five years for the remainder, w i thout end-use restrictions (i.e., general corporate objectives, excluding investment in stock or in real estate). External commercial borrowing guidelines for exporters and shipping companies have been liberalized. An Ind ian en t i ty may lend in foreign exchange to its who l ly owned subs id iary abroad. An Indian exporter may lend without restriction from the funds held in an EEFC account for trade-related purposes to an overseas impor t ing customer against a bank guarantee. Other transac t ions requ i re prior permission from the RBI. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Prior to September 17, 2002, prepayment of these loans and credits and payments of inter- est and other charges on such loans could be made by ADs with general permission of the RBI. Effective that date, prepayments on such loans up to the equivalent of US$100 m i l l ion may be made by ADs through the automatic route w i thout RBI approval. E f fec t ive March 1, 2003, prepayments are permitted w i thout any l im it under the automatic route. The au toma t ic rou te is ava i lab le to borrowers who have complied w i th all relevant government and RBI acts, gu ide l ines, and regulations wh i le accessing external borrowing. All legal en t i t ies, except t rus ts and n o n p r o f it organizations, may borrow abroad up to the equ iva lent of US$50 m i l l ion under the automatic route w i thout RBI approval. Borrowing proposals for loans of less than three years and those f a l l i ng under the US$5 m i l l ion and US$100 m i l l ion schemes must be cleared by the RBI. External borrowing fa l l ing outside these schemes requires government approval. External borrowing is permitted for expenditures related to roads, bridges, ports, indus t r ial parks, and urban infras truc ture (water supply, sanitation, and sewerage projects). In addition to the prev ious ly designated sectors, power, railways, te lecommun ica t ion s, and l icense fee payments are also approved uses of external borrow- ing. Ho ld ing companies and promoters may raise external borrowing up to the equivalent of US$200 m i l l ion to f i n a n ce equ i ty inves tment in a subs id iary company imp lemen t ing infras truc ture projects. Corporate borrowers may raise long-term resources with average ma tu r i t ies of 8 and 16 years up to the equ iva lent of US$200 m i l l i on and US$400 m i l l ion, respectively, and use the funds without any end-use restrictions (i.e., general corporate objectives), e x c l u d i ng inves tmen ts in the stock market and real estate. Corporate borrowers are permitted to raise external borrow ing to acqu i re ships and vessels from Ind ian shipyards. Corporate borrowers who had raised funds for the import of capital goods and services th rough bonds, f loa t ing rate notes, or syndicated loans are permitted to rem it funds into Ind ia and deploy them, exc lud ing investments in the stock market or in real estate, u n t il the ir actual import of capital goods and services takes place or up to one year, wh ichever is less. In case borrowers decide to deploy the funds abroad u n t il the ap- proved end-use requ irement arises, they are e l ig ib le to do so in l ine with RBI guidelines. Borrowing l im i ts for te lecommun ica t ions projects are f l ex ib l e, and an increase f rom the present 25% to 50% of the project cost is allowed. ADs are allowed to give performance bonds or guarantees in favor of overseas buyers in connec t ion with bona f i de exports f rom Ind ia, as we ll as guarantees in the ord inary course of business with respect to missing documents, au then t ic i ty of signatures, and other similar purposes. The RBI has granted general perm iss ion to agents of foreign shipping and a i r l ine companies to give guarantees on behalf of the ir companies with respect to any debt or other obligation —such as income tax, customs, or postage—to any central or state government agency in Ind ia. The RBI has permitted ADs to grant loans to residents against guarantees from nonresi- dents, subject, among o ther th ing s, to the cond i t ion that no d i rect or ind i r e ct payment is made abroad by way of guarantee, commission, or otherwise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment INDIA 453 Ind ian compan ies a c q u i r i ng fore ign companies or investing directly abroad in joint ventures or who l ly owned subsidiaries may invest up to the equivalent of US$100 million a year through the automatic route. RBI approval is required for investments exceeding this ceil- ing. For the purpose of inves t ing abroad, these companies may purchase foreign exchange up to 100% of the ir net worth as of the date of their last audited balance sheet. Companies may invest 100% of the proceeds of the ir ADR and GDR issues for acquisition of foreign companies and direct investment in jo int ventures and wholly owned subsidiaries. Indian companies inves t ing in Myanmar and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries are allowed the equivalent of an additional US$50 million a year under the auto- ma t ic route. This route is not available for investments in Pakistan. With respect to rupee investments in Bhu tan and Nepal under the automatic route, the annual limit is Rs 7 billion. Companies in SEZs may invest up to the equivalent of US$500 million a year from their foreign cu r rency accoun ts th rough the automatic route. Registered partnership f irms that provide certain specified professional services, such as chartered accountancy, legal services, health care services, information technology, and en ter ta inment software-related services are permitted to invest abroad in foreign concerns in the same l ine of activity up to the equivalent of US$1 million under the automatic route. Such inve s tmen ts exceed ing th is ce i l ing requ i re RBI approval. Any Ind ian company that has issued ADRs or GDRs may acquire shares of foreign compa- n ies engaged in the same area of core ac t iv i ty up to the equivalent of US$100 million or ten times the ir annual exports, wh ichever is higher. Resident employees of foreign companies and their joint ventures that are wholly owned subs id iar ies in wh ich the fore ign company holds not less than 51% equity may invest under an employee stock option scheme w i thout limit, subject to certain conditions. Indian companies may issue up to 100% of equity to nonresidents under the automatic rou te in most sectors, except for a small l ist that requires the approval of the Foreign In- vestment Promotion Board (FIPB) and for another seven items where less than 100% is allowed. There are other exc lus ions, such as industrial licensing and locational policies. Foreign direct investment is permitted in nonretail trading companies. Trading companies must be registered with the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Industry and must obtain a certifi- cate of the ir status as an export, trading, star trading, or super-star trading house before applying to the RBI for remittances or dividends. The automatic route permits foreign in- vestment of up to 51% of the pa id- in capital of such Ind ian companies. Foreign investments in pr int media requ ire approval from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and are subject to the fo l low ing restrictions: (1) foreign investments in com- panies engaged in the pub l ica t ion of news or current affairs may not exceed 26% and must be in the format of fo re ign direct inves tmen ts; and (2) foreign investment in other print media may not exceed 74% of the pa id -up capital of the company, including all foreign direct and ind irect investments, NRI and PIOs investments, and investments on a repatria- t ion or non repa t r ia t ion basis. App l ica t ions for investment in areas that do not fall within the automatic route but that are covered by the foreign investment policy requ ire FIPB approval. Such investments may be approved in accordance w i th the sector-specific gu ide l ines and sectoral equity ceilings. The Department of Indu s t r ial Policy and Promotion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the re levant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approv- als. General permission has also been granted to SEBI-registered foreign venture capital investors to invest in an Ind ian ven tu re capital undertaking or a venture capital fund. N R Is and PIOs may invest f ree ly in any p u b l ic or pr iva te limited company or in any part- nersh ip or proprietary concern engaged in any activity except agricultural or plantation ac t iv i t ies and real estate ( ex c lud ing real estate development, such as construction of houses, etc.), provided (1) funds for investment are either remitted from abroad through normal bank ing channe ls or drawn f rom the ir nonres ident accounts; (2) repatriation of the capital invested w i ll not be requested; and (3) overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible deben tu res bought th rough the stock exchange by NR Is are adhered to. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 INDIA OCBs, societies, and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by NRIs or PIOs and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by NRIs are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited company, in accordance with the above provisions. NRIs may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio investments with repatria- tion benefits of up to 5% of the capital, provided that their total holdings of shares and con- vertible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonrepayable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed 10% (extendable to 24% if the general meeting of the investing company passes a special resolution) of the paid-up capital of the company or of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company; (2) invest freely in national savings certificates with fu ll repatriation benefits. Existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to prescribed percentages of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign investor; and (3) invest on a nonrepayable basis in money market mutual funds (only NRIs and OCBs), subject to RBI approval. Shares may be sold freely on the stock exchange; however, other sales of shares, securities, or immovable property require approval of the RBI. Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition of nonrepatriation was imposed when approv- ing the original investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets A person resident in India may hold, own, or transfer any immovable property outside In- dia, provided that such property was acquired while the person was resident outside India or it was obtained through an inheritance or as a gift. That person is also free to dispose of such property or acquire new property from the sale proceeds of such property. Residents may buy immovable property abroad using RFC accounts. RBI approval is required for Indian companies that have established offices abroad to ac- quire immovable property abroad for their business use of for staff residences. NRIs and OCBs (predominantly those owned by NRIs) may invest in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.). Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is permitted up to the amount brought in to pur- chase the property. ADs may allow remittances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million a year—subject to the payment of applicable taxes —for sales of immovable property. Prior to sale, the property must have been held for ten years. ADs may lend to NRIs in rupees to purchase immovable property, shares for personal busi- ness, or mortgages. Borrowing not exceeding US$250,000 or its equivalent in foreign ex- change by resident from nonres ident close relatives is permitted by the RBI provided the loan is interest-free and is repayable in one year. These transactions requ ire the approval of the RBI. NRIs are permitted to grant loans on a nonrepatriation basis to residents for a period not exceeding three years and with an interest rate not exceeding the bank rate by more than 2%. ADs are allowed to permit remittances of gifts and donations up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a year by residents. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions require the approval of the RBI. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Rem i t tances of earnings from sweepstakes, betting, and lotteries are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad INDIA 455 Borrowing is subject to approval by the MOF and the Department of Economic Affairs. ADs may avail themselves of loans, overdraf ts, and other types of fund-based credit facili- ties from their overseas branches and correspondents of up to 25% of their unimpaired Tier I capital or the equivalent of US$10 million, whichever is higher. Loans or overdrafts in excess of th is l im it may be obtained w i thout prior approval from the RBI solely for the purpose of replenishing the dealers' rupee resources in India. Repayment of such borrowing requires prior approval from the RBI, which may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the RBI or any other bank or financial institu- tion and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. There are no controls on ADs maintaining accounts abroad. Shipping and airline companies incorporated in Ind ia are allowed to open foreign currency accounts to operate their busi- nesses. In all other cases, specific permission by the RBI is required. The RBI has granted general permission to certain categories of persons to maintain foreign currency accounts abroad for specific purposes, subject to certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) ADs are free to manage surplus balances in the ir exchange accounts through overnight placement and investments with their branches or correspondent banks, subject to limits imposed by their respective boards. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may lend to residents to meet bona fide foreign exchange requirements toward preshipment credit in foreign currency for f inanc ing domestic inputs. Banks may also use their FCNR deposit resources to grant loans to residents for their bona fide requirements. No scheme is in place allowing for these transactions, All rupee and foreign currency deposits are subject to a cash reserve ratio of 4.75% of net demand and time deposit liabilities; ACU funds in U.S. dollars, however, are subject to a m in imum ratio of 3% of net demand and time deposit liabilities. Interest rates on FCNR (bank) deposits are subject to a ce i l ing of LIBOR or the swap rate for the corresponding maturity less 25 basis points except in the case of yen deposits, for which the ceiling is LIBOR. All non res ident deposits, in both local and foreign currency, are subject to the same cash reserve requirements and statutory l iqu id i ty ratios. Banks may offer d ifferen t ial interest rates on wholesale rupee deposits equal to or exceed- ing Rs 1.5 m i l l ion. In the case of FCNR (bank) deposits, they have the discretion to deter- m ine the m i n im um e l ig ib le amount q u a l i f y i ng for d i f fe ren t ial rates, subject to the l im i ts of the scheme. Effective December 21, 2002, banks may invest in money market instruments and/or debt instruments held abroad up to the limits approved by the ir Board of Directors. Banks are requ ired to maintain on an ongoing basis Tier I and Tier II capital at 9% of the open pos i t ion l im it approved by the RBI, and the overall open position limit must be ap- proved by the RBI. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io held abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 INDIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n .a. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Capital transact ions Con tro ls on c red it ope ra t ions Changes During 2002 December 21. Banks were allowed to offer foreign currency swaps without limits. Previ- ously, banks could access the market up to the equivalent of US$50 m i l l ion. November I. Ind iv idu a ls were permitted to open RCFD accounts with ADs for currency f rom spec if ied sources or th rough exports of goods and services. (This is in addition to the e x i s t i ng f a c i l i ty for r e t a i n i ng up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $2,000 in foreign banknotes and/or fore ign currency t rave le r 's checks.) September 17. Prepayments of loans and credits and payments of interest and other charges from nonresidents to residents up to the equivalent of US$100 m i l l ion may be made by ADs through the automatic route w i thout RBI approval. September 27. ADs were allowed to approve short-term credit proposals for periods of less than three years for up to the equivalent of US$20 m i l l ion an import transaction, provided that the charge for the credit does not exceed LIBOR p lus 50 basis points up to one year or LIBOR p lus 125 po in ts for periods between one and three years. P rov is ions spec if ic to comme rc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions December 21. Banks were a l lowed to invest in money market ins trumen ts and/or debt in- struments abroad subject to l im i ts approved by the ir Board of Directors. Changes During 2003 Capital transact ions Con t ro ls on c red it ope ra t ions March 1. Prepaymen ts of loans to residents from non res iden ts through ADs are permitted w i thout any l im it (previously, the l im it was up to the equ iva lent of US$100 m i l l i o n) under the automatic route. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position os of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The cu r rency of Indon e s ia is the Indone s ian rup iah. Commemora t ive gold co ins are also legal tender but seldom circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined by supp ly and demand conditions. In an effort to reduce exchange rate vo la t i l i ty, Bank Indonesia (BI) imposes comprehensive restrictions on rupiah transactions between onshore banks and residents that limit each bank's forward sale of foreign exchange to non res iden ts. No. No. Forward fore ign currency con trac ts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents are limited to the equ iva lent of $3 m i l l ion for each bank and for each customer. These restrictions do not apply to inves tmen t - re la ted transac t ions (i.e., equity participation, purchase of securi- ties, and credit provisions). Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Indonesia is a member of the ASEAN. Barter agreements and open accoun ts There are coun ter trade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored construction or p rocu rement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million. Administration of control The Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the authority to institute regulations regarding commercial offshore borrowing. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On March 27, 2002, the Indonesian authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of and to prohibit payments to listed individuals and organizations associated w i th terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Secu r i ty Coun c il re so lu t ion s. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Res t r ic t ions aga inst coun t r ies on wh ich the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Travelers may take out free ly up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August-1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of BI. Gold may be imported f ree ly. Impor ts are subject to a levy of Rp 25 per $1. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Effective October 10, 2002, travelers are free to take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 100 m i l l ion a person (previously Rp 5 m i l l ion). For amounts in excess of th is l im i t, prior approval of the BI is required, and a declaration must also be submitted to customs. E f fec t ive October 10, 2002, any person may br ing in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 100 m i l l ion a person (prev ious ly Rp 5 m i l l ion ). For imports of amounts in excess of this l im i t, a declaration, in c lud ing the origin of the banknotes and coins, must be submitted to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Only check ing and t ime deposit accounts are permitted. Yes. n.a. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts Yes. On ly checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. No checks may be drawn on for- eign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. Requ i remen ts in general are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. Ex- porters, however, require banks to guarantee a 100% face value of red-clause LCs and ad- vance payments. Cement/asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Letters of credit LCs may be issued by foreign exchange banks in the form of sight or usance LCs. Payment settlement under usance LCs should not be more than 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses W i thout quotas INDONESIA 459 Imports f rom coun tr ies against wh ich the Un i ted Na t ions has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain prod- ucts. Secondhand engines, however, and their parts and other capital goods may be im- ported by indus tr ial firms for the ir own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the gu ide l ines of the M in i s t ry of Trade and Industry (MOT). Certain cate- gories of agr icu l tural imports, inc lud ing foodstuffs, beverages, and f ru i ts, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the MOT. The procurement policies of compa- nies approved for the importation of f ru i t, alcoholic beverages, and chicken are evaluated annua l ly by the government, a l though exp l ic it quan t i ta t ive restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a reg is try of authorized importers that includes only Indonesian na t iona ls, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for the ir own projects. Al- though all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the General Importer License. Certain products are granted preferen t ial duties w i th in the framework of the AFTA and the WTO. A 5% tariff applies to imports of capital goods and raw materials. Import taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Petramina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and Dahana on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of cer- tain heavy equ ipment and motor vehicles, although th is right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports w i th sight LC cond i t ions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of goods con ta in ing imported material that received import tax abolishment from the government must be examined before sh ipmen t. Yes. Exports are proh ib i ted to countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo, as are exports to all countries of certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are requ ired to obtain trade permits issued by the MOT. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior MOT authorization in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, iron for cons t ruc t ion re inforcemen t, au tomob i le tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat f lou r, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, o le in, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price s tab i l i ty sometimes leads to the suspension of exports of va r ious items in th is category. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 W i th quo tas Export taxes Taxes collected th rough the exchange system INDONESIA M an ioc may be exported on ly by approved exporters. Textiles and tex t i le products subject to import quotas in the consumer countries may be exported on ly by approved textile ex- porters, who may t rans fer t h e ir a l loca ted quo tas to o ther approved exporters through the Commod i ty Exchange Board. Export taxes r ang ing from the e q u i v a l e nt of $250 to $4,800 per cubic meter are applied to sawed and processed t imbe r. Exports of logs are subject to taxes rang ing from $500 to $4,800 per c u b ic meter. Cer ta in processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other prod- ucts are subject to export taxes rang ing from 5% to 30%. Taxes are collected th rough foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non r e s id en ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions Re s ident banks are p roh ib i t ed from c o n d u c t i ng the fo l low ing transac t ions with nonresi- den ts: (1) l end ing or p rov is ion of overdraft in rup iah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds w i th non re s iden t s; (3) purchase of rup iah -denom ina ted securities issued by nonresidents; (4) in t e ro f f i ce t ransac t ions in rup iah; and (5) equ i ty participation in rupiah with nonres iden ts. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase w i thout l im it shares issued by Indonesian com- pan ies in the Indone s ian cap i tal marke t. There is a l im it on the ownersh ip of a jo int securi- t ies company that is a f inance company. Fore ign companies are permitted to issue indones ian depository receipts (IDRs) through cus tod ian banks in Indones ia. IDRs are ins t rumen ts that fac i l i ta te the trading of shares of fo re ign compan ies in the Indones ian capital market. Custodian banks in turn issue IDRs based on the shares that the foreign companies have in the custodian bank. No control applies as long as the shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange ( ISM ). If those secur i t ies are listed on the ISM, they should comply in i t i a l ly w i th the Capi- tal Ma rket Act and w i th the requ i rement on the m ax imum percentage of foreign ownership of shares. However, Indonesian companies do not issue shares but rather American deposi- tory receipts in the U.S. cap i tal market and global depository receipts on the London Stock Exchange. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Banks are proh ib i ted from purchas ing securities denominated in rupiah issued by non re s iden t s. Sale or issue abroad by re s iden ts Banks are a l lowed to issue secu r i t ies on pr imary cap i tal markets, subject to regulations on o f f sho re loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 461 On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions gove rn ing bonds and other debt secur i t ies apply. Purchase abroad by residents The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing bonds and o ther debt secu r i t ies app ly. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks requ i re approval from the COLT for issuance of ins trumen ts with maturities of over two years or for amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of $20 m i l l ion a year a creditor; total issuances, however, shou ld not exceed 30% of a bank 's capital. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. Controls on derivatives and other instruments D e r iv a t ive t ran sac t ion s, o ther th an those associated w i th fo re ign exchange and in terest ra tes, are p roh ib i t ed. Excep t ion may be made by the BI for de r iva t ive t ransac t ions related to stock ma rg ins. Banks are ob l iged to en ter in to a w r i t ten agreement w i th th e ir c l ien ts and exp l a in the r isks of these t r an s a c t ions and also to subm it a week ly report to the BI. Losses f rom d e r iv a t ive t ran sac t ions exceed ing 10% of each bank 's cap i tal must be reported to the BI imm ed i a t e ly. Forward and swap sales or op t ion t ransac t ions invo lv ing s e l l ing fore ign cu r rency ca ll or pu rcha s ing fo re ign cu r rency against rup i ah by domestic banks to nonres i- den ts are l im i t ed to the equ iva lent of $3 m i l l i on a bank a customer. These controls do not app ly to investment-related t ransac t ions (e.g., equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion, purchase of securities, and credit p rov is ions ). Banks are proh ib i ted f rom m a in t a in ing derivative exposure trans- acted by the bank 's owners, d irec tors, employees, commissioners, or any other party l inked to the bank, as we ll as f rom ex t end ing credit fac i l i t ies and overdrafts for the purpose of der iva t ive transac t ions to the bank's debtors. Purchase locally by non re s iden ts Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts Purchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial cred i ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents In general, resident en t i t ies are prohibited from granting credit to nonresident entities. To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents Res ident en t i t ie s, e spec ia l ly in the nonb ank p r iv a te sector, may borrow f rom non res iden ts; howeve r, they have to subm it pe r iod ic repor ts to the BI on th e ir borrow ing. The fo l low ing are sub ject to approval by the Coo rd ina t ing M in i s t er of Economy: (1) borrowings related to deve lopment projects u s ing nonrecourse, l im i ted recourse, advance payment, trus tee bor- row ing, leasing, and s im i lar f in an c ing; (2) borrow ings related to some deve lopment pro- jects; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company ( inc lud ing the State Bank of Pertamina), i n c l u d i ng in the form of government equ i ty participation or guarantee for p rov is ion of feedstock supp ly. In general, there are no controls on the g ran t ing of credit by residents (excluding banks) to nonres ident entities. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Banks are a l low ed to p rov ide su re t ies and gua ran tees to non res ident en t i t ies o n ly und er the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ion s: (1) when there is s u f f i c i e nt con traguaran tee f rom bona f ide overseas banks ( e x c l u d i ng overseas branches of the re levant bank ); and (2) when there is a cash depos it va lued at 100% of the guaran tee gran ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 INDONESIA Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Several sectors are controlled: (1) foreign investment companies in infrastructure projects such as seaports; electricity generation, transmission and d is tr ibu t ion for pub l ic use; tele- communications; shipping; airlines; potable water supply; pub l ic railways; and nuc lear electric power generation should be established by way of jo int venture between foreign and Indones ian partners, and the share of Indonesian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, which means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign citizen and/or entities. However, some of the company's shares must be sold to Indonesian citizens and/or en t i t ies through direct placement and/or ind irec t ly through the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after the commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownership of direct investments must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of p roduc t ion. For investments above $50 m i l l ion or its equivalent, divestment of 50% must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are e l ig ib le to receive preferen t ial customs du ty treatment for im- ports of required raw materials for the first two years of production activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to meet its export commitments. Income tax ho ld ings for up to eight years are granted to newly established corporations in 22 indus tr ial sectors. Takeovers of nonstrategic operations by foreign investors are permitted w i thout govern- ment approval. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected w i th the employment of foreign na t iona ls in Indonesia and re la t ing to deprecia- tion allowances. No transfer permit is issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benef i ts from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not requ i re a transfer permit. Nonres iden ts are allowed to buy land on ly with the t i t le status "the right to use land," but since the t i t le to real estate in Indonesia is "the right to bu i ld on land," they are not allowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inward direct invest- ment in local real estate. Yes. No. Resident banks are prohibited from conduc t ing the fo l low ing transactions with nonresi- dents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds w i th nonres iden ts; (3) purchase of rup iah-denom ina ted securities issued by nonresidents; (4) in te ro f f ice transac t ions in rup iah; and (5) equ i ty participation in rup iah with nonresidents. The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. Its prior approval is re- qu i red before any pub l ic enterprise, commercial bank, or pub l ic sector body may accept a loan from abroad. In addition, the prospective borrowers must obtain COLT decisions for borrowing from abroad. Banks may receive foreign commercial borrowing with maturities of no more than two years in an amount not exceeding the equ iva lent of $20 m i l l ion a creditor on a bilateral basis w i thout prior approval from the BI, but the banks must main- tain the total amount of such borrowings at or below a maximum of 30% of their capital. Trade f inanc ing, such as the issuance of LCs, red-clause LCs, supp l ier's and buyer's credits with ma tur i t ies not exceeding one year and amounts of less than $20 m i l l ion, are not con- sidered borrowings r equ i r ing approval from the COLT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 463 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans or financial and commercial credits in either domestic currency or foreign exchange to nonresidents. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange. Banks may also purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that the secu- rities must be investment grade and should not be issued by their groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regu la t ions, namely the regulation on net open position aimed at p ruden t ial control. This is allowed; however, transactions are limited by open position limits. Deposit accounts in fore ign exchange are subject to a 3% reserve requirement, while that for accounts in rup iah is 5%. Banks may place their investments only in f inanc ial institutions, inc lud ing businesses that operate in f inanc ial services, such as leasing, ven tu re capital, securities companies, insur- ance, and clearinghouse settlement ins t i tu t ions. There are limits on the amount that banks may invest in financial institutions. Equity participation of foreign banks in a jo int bank can reach 99%. There is a requirement that foreign legal entities obtain a recommendation from the monetary authorities of their country of origin. Such a recommendation should at least include certification that the for- eign legal en t i ty has a good reputation and has never conducted any unethical act in the banking business. At the end of each business day, the total daily consolidated net open position, which cov- ers both on- and off-balance sheet items as well as both onshore and offshore branches, must not exceed 20% of bank's capital after a transitional period. Banks must submit a weekly report of their daily consolidated net open position to the BI. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurance and reinsurance companies licensed in Indonesia are not allowed to invest abroad except for private placement in companies conducting insurance business overseas, such as insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, etc. Indone- sian mutual funds are prohibited from investing abroad. L iab i l i t ies of insu rance and re insurance companies denominated in foreign currency that exceed assets denom ina ted in foreign currency shall not be more than 10% of shareholders' equity. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2002 March 27. The Indones ian au tho r i t ies no t if ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of and to proh ib it payments to listed individuals and organizations as- sociated w i th terrorism in accordance w i th the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. October 10. The amount of domestic banknotes and coins that may be imported or exported w i thout BI approval was increased to Rp 100 m i l l ion from Rp 5 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Exchange Arrangement The currency of the I s lam ic R epub l ic of Iran is the Iran ian r ia l. On March 2 1, 2002, the o f f i c i al exchange rate was abolished and the exchange rate system was un i f i ed. P r ior to th is date, the exchange rate system consisted of two o f f ic ia l ly approved rates: (1) the o f f ic ial rate of Rls 1,750 per $1, which applied mainly to oil exports that were a l loca ted for imports of essential and government imported goods and services, to certain p r i o r i ty projects of the government, and to servicing of pub l ic and pub l i c ly guaranteed debt; and (2) an effec t ive Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) rate, applicable to non- oil exports and imports f rom a pos i t ive l ist issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce (MOC). There was also an u n o f f i c i al exchange market and the Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (BMJII) allowed commercial banks limited access to this market to cover certain current t ransac t ions; the rate on the u n o f f i c i al market d i f fe red from the TSE exchange rate by about 1%. E f f e c t ive March 2 1, 2002, the o f f i c i al exchange rate of the r ial was abolished and a un i f ied exchange rate reg ime based on a managed f loa t ing exchange rate arrangement was adopted. The exchange rate of the rial is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. As a resu l t, effec t ive March 30, 2002, the exchange arrangement of the Islamic Republic of Iran was rec lass i f ied to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate f rom the category conven t ional pegged arrangement. No. P r ior to the e l im i n a t i on of the o f f i c i al exchange rate on March 21, 2002, government oil export proceeds, surrendered to the BMJ II at Rls 1,750 per $1, were mostly earmarked for imports of essential goods and services and servicing pub l ic and pub l ic ly guaranteed debt. Th is system gave r ise to an im p l i c it exchange subs idy. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n .a. A ll b i l a t e r al paymen ts a r rangemen ts have been terminated, and the ou ts tand ing credit balances are in the process of being settled. Reg ional arrangements The Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran is a member of the ACU. Settlements of current transactions w i th the member c o u n t r i es of the ACU are requ i red to be settled in AMUs. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The list of allowed imports and exports is regulated and issued periodically by the MOC. E f f e c t ive Ma rch 21, 2002, fo r e ign exchange may be purchased for the payment of a u t h o r i z ed goods and se rv ices. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Ex e cu t ive Board Dec is ion No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 465 On Ap r il 10, 2002, the BM J II no t i f i ed the IMF that a ll bank ing, f inance, and credit i n s t i t u t i o ns had been ins t ruc ted to freeze suspected accoun ts, based on an o f f ic ial list. These measures were taken in accordance w i th UN Secu r i ty Counc il R e so lu t ions 1267, 1333, and 1373. Yes. No. A u t h o r i ty to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the BM J I I. Exports of gold ingo ts, co ins, or s em i f in i sh ed produc ts are p roh ib i ted. Exports of f in ished articles may be effec ted in accordance w i th re levant regu la t ions. Na tu ral and ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing authorized banks, may import go ld, p l a t i n um, and s i lver bu l l ion for commercial purposes, in accordance w i th the re levant regu la t ion s. The importation of more than a reasonable amount of j ew e l ry for personal use requ i res approval f rom the BM J I I. The expor ta t ion of I ran ian gold co ins for num i sma t ic purposes requ ires pr ior approval f rom the BM J I I. Yes. Res iden ts l e av ing Iran are a l lowed to export up to $2,000 or the equ iv a l ent a tr ip. The l im it for an i n d i v i d u al t rave l ing w i th a g roup passport is $1,000 or the equ iva len t. Yes. There is no l im it on the amount of foreign exchange that foreign travelers may b r ing into the coun try, but a declaration is required to be able to repatriate the excess amount not spent in the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency I r an i an na t iona ls may open fo re ign currency-denominated (FCD) accounts both domes t ica l ly and abroad. Yes. n .a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange o r ig ina t ing abroad and deposited in these accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout l im i ta t ions. Domestic currency accounts Funds on r i al accoun ts may be used on ly domes t ica l ly. Blocked accounts n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requ iremen ts Yes. Advance payment requ iremen ts E f fec t ive March 21, 2002, authorized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may determine at their d iscre t ion the amount of advance payments for opening LCs (previously, requirements ranged from 10% to 100% of the LC amount). Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Yes. Yes. Letters of credit Imports through LCs and b i l ls of exchange are permitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs All importers must obtain import licenses from the relevant ministries (mainly the MOC). Clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of both sh ipp ing documents endorsed by an authorized bank and a permit issued by the MOC. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals, must be accompanied by a special permit issued by the M in is try of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Telecommunication devices require a permit issued by the M in is t ry of the Post, Telegraph, and Telephone. Prior to the e l im ina t ion of the TSE exchange rate on March 21, 2002, there was a positive import list of 47 broad categories of goods that could be imported at th is exchange rate. Some goods may be imported under certain conditions with special permits. Imports from Israel are prohibited. At the beg inn ing of each year, the MOC issues a list of goods that may be imported w i thout prior approval. Most imports are subject to an ad valorem commercial benefit tax in addition to any applicable customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds E f fec t ive March 21, 2002, the repatriation requirement was abolished. Previously, exporters received certificates of deposit against the repatriation of the ir foreign exchange earnings, which had to be repatriated w i th in eight months (for capital goods, w i th in five years) and wh ich they could use for the ir imports, sell on the TSE to other licensed importers, or sell to the bank at the preceding day's rate in the interbank foreign exchange market. Exporters also received a 2% bonus in the form of a retention allowance for each mon th of early repa tr ia t ion and surrender of foreign exchange. There was no repatriation requ irement for exports of handicrafts. Prior to March 21, 2002, when the surrender requirements applicable to non-oil exporters were e l im ina ted, surrender ratios were the same as those for repatriation requirements. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Letters of credit The export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions and b i l ls of exchange is permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 467 Shorter-term trade f inanc ing is currently undertaken through interbank credit lines, where exporters are certain of receiving their sales proceeds on a sight basis through a postimportation f inanc ing fac i l i ty already established between the BMJII and the respective foreign banks. Under this umbrella fac i l i ty, the BMJ II provides an imp l ic it foreign exchange guarantee against rial/dollar devaluation (but not against fluctuations in cross rates, which must be met by the importers). Preshipment inspection Inspection by the customs au thor i t ies generally applies to all exports. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes The MOC issues an overall export license for goods on the authorized list. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Inv is ib le payments may be made in excess of limits established by the BMJII from externally financed FCD accounts. Freight charges may be transferred only through LCs or bills of exchange. Only Iranian insurance companies may issue insurance policies for the import of goods. Approval is granted for payments of unloading and storage costs, and administrative charges on a case- by-case basis. The payment of commissions is not controlled. Prior approval Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for profits and dividends. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts and bona fide tests for the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Effective March 21, 2002, the limits are $2,000 a person a trip, and $1,000 a person traveling with a group passport (previously, the l im it was $2,000 a trip up to a maximum of $6,000 a year). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Iranian corporations are allowed to pay pensions and fam i ly maintenance to nonresident employees and are allowed to transfer these payments through the banking system at the o f f ic ial exchange rate (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the TSE rate). Applications for payment of registration fees for participation in research projects must be submitted to the relevant ministry for approval. Yes. Allowances are provided on a monthly basis to students on scholarships abroad, approved by the M in i s t ry of H igher Education. (Prior to the un i f i c a t ion of the exchange rates, these transfers were effected at the o f f ic ial rate of Rls 1,750 per $1.) All other students abroad may purchase limited amounts of foreign exchange for tuition and boarding (prior to the un i f ica t ion of the exchange rates, at the TSE rate). Ind iv idua ls who seek medical treatment abroad may obtain a foreign exchange allowance of up to $30,000 on presentation of advice of an Iranian physician; allowances exceeding this limit may be provided with approval of the High Medical Counc il of the M in is t ry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers are allowed to transfer all of their salaries without limitation upon approval of the ir employers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits A l im it of $ 10,000 app l ies. Payment of c o n s u l t i ng or legal fees is permitted w i th the approval of the Bureau of Legal Services. Yes. There are l im i ts on payments for subscr ip t ions and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Non res iden ts may invest in in s t rumen ts traded on the TSE, but such investments are not protected under the Law on A t trac t ion and Protection of Foreign Investment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n .a. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment There are con tro ls on all cred it operations and all transactions in securities, guarantees, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies. Outward direct investment These transactions requ i re approval from the High Council for Investment. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment If the investment took place in accordance with the Law on Attraction and Protection of Fore ign Cap i tal Inve s tmen t, con t ro ls are administered by the Organization for Investment and Econom ic and Techn ical Assistance of the M in is t ry of Economic Affa irs and Finance. The repa tr ia t ion of cap i tal is guaranteed with the approval of the Organization for Inve s tment and Econom ic and Techn ical Assistance of the M in is try of Economic A f fa i rs and F in an ce and the BM J I I. Controls on real estate transactions n .a. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 469 Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. Exchange arrangement March 21. The official exchange rate was abolished, and the dual exchange rate system was un i f ied. Changes During 2002 March 21. The implicit exchange subsidy was eliminated. March 30. The exchange arrangement of the Islamic Republic of Iran was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 21. The sale of foreign exchange for the payment of authorized goods and services was permitted. Imports and import payments April 10. The BM J II no t i f ied the IMF that all banking, finance, and credit institutions had been instructed to freeze suspected accounts, based on an off ic ial list. These measures were taken in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolutions 1267, 1333, and 1373. March 21. Authorized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions were allowed to determine at their discretion the amount of advance payments for opening LCs. March 21. A positive list of 47 broad categories of goods that were imported at the TSE exchange rate was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds March 2L The repatriation requirements for export proceeds were eliminated. March 21. The surrender requirements applicable to non-oil exporters were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 21. Iranian corporations were allowed to pay pensions and family maintenance to nonresident employees and to transfer these payments through the banking system at the official exchange rate (prior to this date, these transactions were effected at the TSE rate). March 21. The limits on travel allowances were set at $2,000 a person traveling with an individual passport and $1,000 a person traveling with a group passport (previously, the limit was $2,000 a trip, up to an annual limit of $6,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The Iraqi dinar is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency. In practice, however, state banks are allowed to transact at the prevailing market rate, effectively legalizing the paral- lel market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. n.a. Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI). Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the CBI and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor of the CBI. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade (MOT) formulates import policy and the annual import program. Yes. n.a. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that they declare it upon importation. Resi- dents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding five grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought with them for personal use. The maximum amount allowed is ID 5. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency IRAQ Amoun ts up to ID 1,000 are allowed. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli cur- rency), in unlimited amounts, provided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident Iraqis and resident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts with- out restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Iraqis and nonresident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these ac- counts without restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank- notes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which involve current payment transactions, and special nonresident accounts, which involve capital transfer transactions. Balances on these accounts and any applicable interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year in three installments to cover personal expenses in their country of residence. For all other cases, approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank provides foreign exchange upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances when reference must be made to the CBI. Imports are restricted by UN sanctions. Licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 473 Import taxes and/or tariffs To f inance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import du ty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies undertaking development projects in Iraq are exempt f rom all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, inc lud ing income taxes due on the earnings of their non- Iraqi workers. State import monopoly Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Exporters of 13 goods manu fac tu red by firms in the pub l ic sector must repatriate 60% of the ir fore ign exchange proceeds through the Raf ida in Bank or the Rasheed Bank and sur- render them w i t h in two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export pro- ceeds in a foreign exchange account with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses Exports are restricted by UN sanctions. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The MOT may prohibit the exportation of any commod- ity when supply fa l ls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles require permission. Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is available only for the payment of freight and insurance. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for their exports. Yes. The basic allowance for travel to Arab countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). In fo rma t ion is ava i lab le on ly for payment of medical and study abroad costs. Yes. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries, such as India; the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU; and countries in North Africa, where students are paid a fixed amount in dollars. The Ra f ida in Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are na t iona ls of Arab coun tr ies employed by the M in is t ry of Higher Education, and of sci- en t i f ic researchers and medical doctors, in accordance w i th the terms of the ir contracts. Yes. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not em- ployed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 a person if not in- sured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled noncontrac- tual workers employed in the nationalized sector by the government are entitled to ID 40 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 IRAQ person a month. Persons under 16 years or over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Most capital transactions abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment All investments abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural, and tourism sectors; participation is encouraged by the Arab Investment Law. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that their contribution and profits are paid in Iraqi dinars and that the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100% of the profits distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of their paid-in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investments. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one- half of their productive life left. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 475 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the euro. Through February 9, 2002, however, the Irish pound remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 9, 2002, both the Irish pound and the euro circulated. On February 10, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Ireland participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Irish pound was set at IR£0.787564 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. No. No. Yes. Restrictions are applied to relevant financial transfers with Iraq, certain individuals associ- ated with the former Republic of Yugoslavia, the Taliban, Myanmar, Zimbabwe, listed terrorists, and persons and organizations related to terrorism, in accordance with the rele- vant UN Security Counc il resolutions and EU regulations. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Resident Accounts 477 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts may be blocked in accordance with the relevant EU regulations. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originat- ing in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The EU system of customs duties applies to imports. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of controlled military and dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 IRELAND Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for a very limited number of sectors that are subject to special conditions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, individuals, and companies whose principal place of residence or registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Development through its Land Services Division for permission to purchase land. Such permission is rarely withheld. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Irish pound could be used for payments through February 9, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 10. The euro became the sole legal tender. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21,1993. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Israel is the new Israeli sheqel. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed against a basket of currencies comprising the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the yen. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a crawling band in response to market forces. The upper and lower limits of the band, which are adjusted daily, were originally derived to reflect the annual difference be- tween the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation of the main trading partners. In the past few years, however, the practice has changed, such that only the slope of the lower limit has been reduced, whenever waranteed, while the upper limit has remained unchanged at a steeper slope. The slope of the upper limit has been 6% on an annual basis since July 26, 1993; the lower limit has been flat since December 23, 2001. On December 31, 2002, the width of the band, based on the average of the upper and lower limits, was 49%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Effective January 1, 2003, exchange control, which was operated by the Controller of For- eign Exchange and administered by the Bank of Israel (BOI), in cooperation with other government agencies, was abolished. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to classify the accounts of residents of areas under autonomous Palestin- ian administration as a separate group and to report these accounts on the basis of the same principles that apply to nonresident accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 480 ISRAEL Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment require l icens ing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 481 Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Prior to January 1, 2002, when these requirements were lifted, outward portfolio invest- ments and of offer ings abroad by Israeli corporations, individuals, and nonprofit organiza- tions exceeding $5 million or the equivalent had to be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. No. No. The Foreign Exchange Regulations require direct reporting to the Controller of Foreign Exchange of outward direct investments exceeding $5 million or its equivalent. New immi- grants and Israeli citizens returning to Israel after having resided abroad for seven years or more are exempt from direct reporting for a three-year period. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Purchase abroad by residents Prior to December 31, 2002, investments in real estate by institutional investors were in- cluded in the calculation of the 20% ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments abroad. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements All foreign currency accounts held by nonresidents are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, half of which must be deposited with the BOI in an interest-bearing account. Liquid asset requirements The requirements, in the form of a secondary reserve ratio, were being phased out begin- ning August 1, 2002, and were eliminated on June 1, 2003. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements The same reserve ratios apply to bank accounts held by both residents and nonresidents. Reserve requirements against resident foreign currency accounts are denominated in local currency, whereas reserve requirements against nonresident foreign currency accounts are denominated in foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective January 1, 2003, all controls were eliminated. Prior to that date, the ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments (including real estate) was 20%. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally There is no m in imum limit, although prudential regulations may apply, Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 ISRAEL Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The requirement that outward portfolio investments and of offerings abroad by Israeli corporations, individuals, and nonprofit organizations exceeding the equivalent of $5 million to be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange was lifted. Controls on real estate transactions December 31. The 20% ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments abroad that was applied to institutional investors was eliminated. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions August L The requirements, in the form of a secondary reserve ratio, began to be phased out. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January L Exchange control, which was operated by the Controller of Foreign Exchange and administered by the BOI in cooperation with other government agencies, was abolished. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June L The liquid asset requirements on deposit accounts in foreign exchange were eliminated. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L All controls relating to institutional investors' foreign investments were elimi- nated. Previously, the ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments was 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Italy is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Italian lira re- mained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Italian lira and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Italy participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Italian lira was set at Lit 1,936.27 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries are effected in quoted currencies or in euros through foreign accounts. Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either indirectly—through the Bank of Italy (BOI), other financial intermediar- ies, and the Poste Italiane S.p.a.—or directly by drawing on external accounts or by offset- ting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Effective January 1, 2003, operators and intermediaries must transmit, for statistical purposes, data to the Italian For- eign Exchange Office (FEO) on those foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of €12,500 (previously, €10,000) by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return. On March 28, 2002, the Italian authorities notified the IMF that, with effect from March 6 and December 27, 2001, funds and other financial resources of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations involved in terrorism, respectively, had been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments for current and capital transac- tions with respect to Iraq and Myanmar. Effective January 28, 2003, the restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 ITALY Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Domestic purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be de- trade clared to the FEO. Controls on external trade Purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equ iva lent of €13,500 must be declared to the FEO. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take into or out of the coun try un l im i ted amounts of cash and securities in Italian lire and/or foreign currency. For fiscal and anti-money launder ing purposes, the transfer of cash and/or securities exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be declared in writing when departing for or entering from a non-EU country and the declaration must be submitted to a border customs office. When departing for or entering from an EU country, this declaration must be submitted to a bank, customs office, post office, or a customs guard station within 48 hours after entry into Italian territory or 48 hours prior to departure from Italian territory. For transfers by mail, the declaration must be submitted w i th in 48 hours after receipt or at the time of mailing. The declaration has to be sent to the FEO by banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts There are accounts blocked in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures ITALY 485 No. Imports are governed by EU regu la t ions according to which imports of most products, ex- cept for textiles and some products o r ig ina t ing from China, are free of licensing and quan t i- tative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, wh ich have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and live- stock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, but are subject to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports to non-EU countries are permitted freely, with the exception of high-technology products included in an EU regulation and of oil extracted from the seabed, which are sub- ject to ministerial authorization. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The pub l ic offer ing in Italy of securities issued by mutual funds that are not covered by EU directives is subject to authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 ITALY Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Portfolio investments abroad by l ife insurance and pension funds are subject to prudential regulations. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The public offering in Italy of financial products is to be reported to the supervisory author- ity, and the corresponding prospectuses should be attached. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January I. Euro banknotes were introduced; however, both the euro and the Italian lira could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts March I. The euro became the sole legal tender. March 28. The Italian authorities notified the IMF that, with effect from March 6 and De- cember 27, 2001, funds and other financial resources of the Taliban and of listed individu- als and organizations involved in terrorism, respectively, were frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The threshold for the declaration of foreign exchange and gold transactions to the FEO for statistical purposes was increased to €12,500 from €10,000. January 28. Restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola on the payments for current and capital transactions were l if ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of J$ 100 and J$500 and souvenir coins in denominations of J$5, J$10, J$25, J$50, and J$100 are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar is determined in the domestic foreign exchange market. This market is operated by authorized foreign exchange dealers (ADs), cambios, bureaux de change, and the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). The ADs include all commercial banks, select merchant banks, and the two largest building societies. ADs engage in (1) the purchasing and selling of foreign currency in the form of cash, drafts, traveler's checks, and other instruments; (2) the granting of loans and the taking of deposits; and (3) the making of other international payments. Cambios are allowed to purchase and sell foreign exchange in the form of currency notes, drafts, money orders, and other foreign effects in unlimited amounts. However, unlike ADs, cambios are not permitted to grant loans or accept depos- its. The main function of bureaux de change is the exchange of currency for hotel guests. ADs and cambios are required to sell to the BOJ a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 10% of their daily foreign exchange purchases f rom commercial clients, exc lud ing purchases from ADs, cambios, and the BOJ. Excess foreign exchange may be sold without restric- tions to commercial banks, other ADs, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the BOJ. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Surrenders were allowed to be made in one of these three major currencies. Surrenders in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling may be made in U.S. dollars and must be covered at the cross-currency rate derived from their respective weighted-average buy ing rates in the local market on the day of purchase. Also effective that date, the BOJ is to purchase foreign exchange from ADs and cambios under the fo l low ing terms: (1) purchases w i ll be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and euros; (2) the m in imum amount that the BOJ w i ll purchase in a single transaction is 50,000 un i ts of the foreign currency; and (3) the ex- change rates for these currencies w i ll be negotiated by the BOJ. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The market is currently inactive. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an external account or a foreign currency account. Receipts f rom all countries must be debited to an external account in any foreign currency. Exporters and all others w i th earnings in foreign exchange are free to hold the ir proceeds in foreign currency accounts locally or abroad and to use the balances to settle any foreign (currency) obligations. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 JAMAICA Payments arrangements R eg ion al arrangements C l e a r i ng agreemen ts Adm in i s t ra t ion of control International security restrictions Jama ica is a member of the CARICOM. The clearing arrangements w i th in the framework of the CARICOM have been suspended s ince November 1, 1990. The BOJ no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector com- mercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial bank- ing sector in convertible currencies. Trading in fore ign exchange, other than by and through an AD, is prohibited. The MOF has the au tho r i ty to issue d irec t ions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of fo re ign assets. In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Repayment of the loan from Iraq has been suspended in l ine w i th UN sanctions. Payments arrears P r iva te Curren t ly, there is no database on private foreign debt. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) There are no re s t r ic t ions on the purchase, sale, or ho ld ing of gold for num isma t ic or indus- tr ial purposes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Re s iden ts may ho ld foreign currency amoun ts ("A," or external, accounts) in Jamaica. These accoun ts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from o ther ex ternal accounts, and w i th the proceeds from the sale of gold or foreign currencies to an AD. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other ex ternal accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Held domes t ica l ly H e ld abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The Jama ica do l lar is not an in t e rn a t ion a l ly traded currency. Residents may also ma in ta in "B" accounts in domestic currency. These accounts are ex- empt from tax on interest earned, provided that deposits are held as certificates of deposit with at least a one-year maturity. New B accounts have not been allowed since September 22, 1991. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonres iden ts may hold foreign exchange accounts ("A" accounts) in Jamaica. These ac- coun ts enjoy tax-free status under the Income Tax Act once the statutory criteria are met. All credits to these accoun ts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from the local purchase of foreign exchange. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts The r egu l a t ions gove rn ing accounts he ld by residents apply. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs JAMAICA 489 Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import li- censes, when required, are issued by the Trade Board, which functions under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles require a permit for government statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks w i thout reference to the BOJ. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 20% for nonagricultural products and 40% for agricultural products, in compliance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET. Some agricultural imports are subject to additional stamp duties of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of entry. Effective June 3, 2002, the WTO-bound tariffs on 10 agricultural products (certain poultry and vegetables) are 100%. Additional stamp duties on these imported products have brought the rate of total duty payable to 260%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most goods may be exported w i thout restriction. However, specific licenses are required for exports of certain agr icu l tural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique fur- n i tu re, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes n.r. n . r. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 JAMAICA Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective March 1, 2002, the Banking, Financial Institutions, and Building Societies Acts were amended to prohibit these institutions from carrying out investment management businesses on behalf of clients and transferred the authority to conduct these businesses to a non-deposit taking entity. There are no limitations on acquisition of shares in institutions by nonresidents, except by foreign governments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Any issuer that proposes to sell or issue instruments denominated in a foreign currency must obtain ministerial exemption before sale in Jamaica. Bonds or other debt securities These transactions are subject to the Securities Act and the Securities (commercial papers) Regulations. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities (Mutual Funds) Regulations. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to ministerial approval; a prospectus is required under the Companies Act. Purchase abroad by residents For banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds, which acquire foreign assets as part of their busi- ness activities, the purchase must be in accordance with directions issued by the MOF. Jamaican residents may otherwise acquire foreign assets unless acquisition is prohibited by the foreign jurisdiction concerned. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing the purchase abroad by residents apply. On collective investment securities Ministerial approval is required for banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit un- ions, building societies, cambio operators, un it trusts, and pension funds. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities Act and the Unit Trust Act. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities Act. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange No. No. No. No. n .r. No. Currently, lend ing in foreign currency may be carried out only by ADs. Other lenders may apply for exemptions issued by the MOF. Any person may purchase instruments denominated in foreign currency. However, only authorized dealers may engage in the business of carrying out transactions with securities issued in foreign currency. Other specific categories of companies are allowed to acquire ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks JAMAICA 491 foreign securities on ly in accordance w i th the d irec t ions issued by the MOF. The MOF may exempt other parties from such proh ib i t ions. Effective January 3, 2002, the l iqu id assets ratio of commercial banks and banks licensed under the Financial Ins t i tu t ions Act (FIA) with respect to local and foreign currency liabili- ties was reduced to 27% from 28% and the cash reserve ratio was reduced to 9% from 10%. On January 8, 2002, the l iqu id asset ratio was fur ther reduced to 23% from 27%. All deposit accounts, whether held by residents or nonresidents, are treated alike, There are limits on investments by deposit-taking institutions that apply to all equity in- vestments. Aggregate shareholdings may not exceed 50% of capital base, and sharehold- ings in any one company may not exceed 10% of capital base. Investments by all related parties may not exceed 20% of capital base. In banks by nonresidents All substantial ownerships in banks are subject to the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to institutional investors Mu tual fund schemes must be approved by the Securities Commission, and there are l im i ts on investments by depos i t- tak ing ins t i tu t ions. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are no max imum l im i ts on the amount of securities that may be issued by nonresidents. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad General investments, in c lud ing overseas investments by commercial banks, merchant banks, and bu i ld ing societies, are subject to limits. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The m in imum to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance must not exceed 70% of the domestic liabilities of the company. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions may be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonresident companies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give investment advice. Nonresident companies must be owned, controlled, or supervised by persons who are citi- zens of, and are actually residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM states, as may be prescribed. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments June 3. The WTO-bound tariffs on 10 agricultural products (certain pou l try and vegetables) were increased to 100%, bringing the total duty payable to 260%. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments March 1. The Bank ing, F inanc ial In s t i tu t ion s, and Bu i ld ing Societies Acts were amended to prohibit these institutions from carrying out investment management businesses on behalf of c l ien ts and transferred the au thor i ty to conduct these businesses to a non-deposit taking en t i ty. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 3. The l iqu id assets ratio of commercial banks and FIA in s t i tu t ions with respect to local and foreign currency l iab i l i t ies was reduced to 27% from 28%. The cash reserve ratio of commercial banks and FIA ins t i tu t ions with respect to local and foreign currency l iab i l i t ies was reduced to 9% from 10%. January 8. The l iqu id assets ratio of commercial banks and FIA ins t i tu t ions, with respect to local and foreign currency liabilities, was reduced to 23% from 27%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: Apr il 1, 1964. Currency The cu r rency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement C lass if icat ion Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescr ipt ion of currency requ irements Payments arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control In terna t ional security restrictions In acco rdance w i th IMF E x e c u t i ve Board Dec is ion No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the fore ign exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to coun ter d iso rde r ly cond i t ions in the market. The pr inc ipal intervention currency is the do l la r. No. No. There are no o f f i c i a l ly set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated ma in ly by the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF), the M in i s t ry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) ac t ing as the government's agent. Import- and export-reporting requirements are hand led by the METI. On March 29, 2002, Japan no t i f i ed the IMF that a series of measures had been taken to freeze f u n ds and other assets of the Ta l iban, ind iv idu a ls and entities associated with the Ta l iban, and terrorist organizations, in accordance w i th the relevant UN Security Council r e so lu t ion s. Payments related to imports from, and exports to, Iraq require permission from the METI. Permission from the MOF and the METI is required for payments routed through Japan to fore ign coun t r ies by residents of Iraq and for payments to the Taliban and individuals, groups, and o rgan iza t ions associated w i th terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 493 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Certain goods are subject to import restrictions under the Import Control Order for purposes of national security, pub l ic hea l th, and environmental and moral protection. Imports of these goods requ i re prior approval f rom the METI. For the restricted items, once importers ob ta in au tho r iza t ion from the MET I, they receive an impo rt quo ta ce r t i f ica te th at en t i t les them to receive an import license from a bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, ind iv idual au thor iza t ion must be obtained f rom the METI. Import settlements effected under the special methods requ ire au tho r iza t ion f rom the MET I. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export restraint may be applied either g loba l ly or to certain destinations, and it may cover export vo lume, export prices, or other cond i t ions. Twenty-seven export cartels are opera t ing under the p rov i s ions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items are subject to a license to control the ir exportation to specified destinations either because of short supp ly in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the impos i t ion of import res tr ic t ions by other coun tr ies (e.g., certain tex t i les ). Expor ts und er process ing con t rac ts and exports for wh ich se t t lemen ts are effec ted und er the special me thods ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 JAPAN described above requ i re authorization from the METI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Certain goods are subject to export restrictions under the Export Control Order for purposes of international security and env ironmen tal protection. W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Outward direct investments by residents in a limited number of industries, such as the manufac ture of arms, require prior notice. Inward direct investments by foreign investors in a limited number of industries, such as the manufac ture of arms, requ ire prior notice. No. No. No. There is (1) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency- denominated bonds, exc lud ing corporate bonds issued by nonresidents, equivalent to 30% of the ir net worth; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign currency- denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. The l im i ts are (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies holding securities issued by nonres iden ts; (2) the same ratio that applies to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for holding by the Post Office Insu rance Fund of bonds; and (4) 30% of pension trust assets for foreign currency- denom ina ted assets purchased by pension funds deposited before Apr il 1, 1990, and 50% ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 495_ thereafter, on the basis of each institutional account, with the ceiling for foreign-affiliated companies being 70%. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 29. Japan notified the IMF that a series of measures had been taken to freeze funds and other assets of the Taliban, individuals and entities associated with the Taliban, and terrorist organizations, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordanian dinar. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not c ircu la te but are available to residents and nonresidents. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The d inar is o f f ic ia l ly pegged to the SDR, but in practice it has been pegged to the dollar since late 1995. The d i f fe rence between the CBJ's buy ing and selling rates is 0.3%. No. No. Licensed banks may buy an un l im i ted amount of foreign currency against dinars from their customers on a forward deal basis, and they may sell foreign currencies against dinars to the ir customers on a forward deal basis to pay for imports into Jordan. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la teral payments arrangements n.a. Operative There is an arrangement with the Syrian Arab Republic. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 497 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Nonresident Accounts Yes. For statistical purposes, proof of dom ic i le is requ i red when nonres ident accounts are opened. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into fore ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. This comprises impo r ts of certain goods that are p roh ib i ted for na t ional secu r i ty considerations. Import taxes and/or tariffs The max imum ta r i ff rate is 30%. Customs du t ies are levied at a s ing le rate. State import monopoly Oil imports are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Licenses for exports are not requ i red, except for exports to countries that have b i la te ral agreements with Jordan. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 JORDAN Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. No. No. Controls on credit operations There are no controls on these transactions, except for exposure limits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Nonresident investments are limited to a maximum of 49% ownership or 50% subscription in shares in the fo l low ing major sectors: commerce and trade services, construction, con- tracting, and transportation. The amount of investment in any one project must total at least JD 50,000. Investments in the following sectors are not permitted for nonresidents: investi- gation and security, quarrying and m in ing, waste removal, sport clubs, and road transporta- tion of goods and passengers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions These transactions are allowed on ly if reciprocal agreements exist. Cabinet approval must be obtained. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gamb l ing is illegal in Jordan, but the transfer of prize earnings is not restricted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Licensed banks are permitted to lend both residents and nonresidents up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. Lending locally in foreign exchange Licensed banks are permitted to lend both residents and nonresidents up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks There are no controls except for foreign exchange exposure limits. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions spec i f ic to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are no regulations on the issuance of these securities, and portfolio investments are not restricted. Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no controls, except for foreign exposure limits, Except for the sectoral controls described under direct investments, there are no other controls. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 16, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakhstan! tenge. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions The exchange rate of the tenge is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market with limited intervention of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK). The off ic ial exchange rate of the tenge, used for the purposes of cus- toms valuation, the accounting of banking transactions, and tax payments, is determined once a week on the basis of exchange trading sessions and announced by the NBK. The official exchange rate of the tenge against the dollar is set on the basis of an assessment of the general macroeconomic situation; inf la t ion rate and monetary aggregate indicators; transactions in the foreign exchange market (e.g., trading sessions on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange—KASE—and information about transactions in the over-the-counter market); the short-term rates on deposits, credits, and NBK notes; and repo rates. The rates for other currencies are set indirectly on the basis of their cross rates against the international markets. The currency market includes the KASE, which conducts daily trading in online mode using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter interbank market, and a network of exchange bureaus handling foreign exchange cash transactions. Banks may participate in trading sessions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. Banks may also trade in an over-the-counter interbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are more than 2,400 exchange bureaus that conduct foreign exchange cash transactions. No. No. Foreign exchange futures are quoted on the KASE. Forward exchange operations are also conducted in the interbank market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions between residents and nonresidents may be conducted in any currency as long as they comply with the requirements of foreign exchange regulations. The NBK has the authority to impose restrictions on the currencies of receipt for residents' export operations (to date, no restrictions have been imposed). Resident and nonresident na tural persons may use foreign currency in Kazakhstan for transactions effected through authorized banks, for crediting/debiting the ir own foreign exchange accounts, and for settlements of goods and services sold by residents possessing the appropriate NBK license. A list of permitted capital transactions is provided in the Law on Foreign Exchange Regula- tions. Certain types of capital transactions invo lv ing the transfer of foreign exchange assets from residents to nonresidents (including transactions in domestic currency between resi- dents and nonresidents) are subject to NBK licensing. Capital transactions invo lv ing the transfer of funds from nonresidents to residents in excess of the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 KAZAKHSTAN Transactions in capital and money market ins trumen ts Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations The use of domestic currency in settlements of credits received in domestic currency, inter- est payments, and other related payments in foreign exchange is prohibited except for set- tlements between residents and nonresidents. Nonres ident ju r id i c al persons are prohibited from using credits received in domestic cur- rency to purchase foreign exchange in the domestic foreign exchange market. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments and/or transfers of currency between residents must be effected in domestic currency except, effec t ive January 1, 2002, in cases and under conditions specified by leg is la t ive acts. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The NBK establishes the procedures for exchange transactions and monitors compliance the rew i th; supervises authorized banks and authorized institutions carrying out certain types of bank ing operations; regulates the l im it on open foreign exchange positions; and has the authority to introduce restrictions on the currencies of receipt for export operations performed by residents and the surrender procedures for export proceeds. For the purpose of fu l f i l l ing international obligations, the government reserves the right to introduce restrictions on the form of settlement for certain foreign exchange operations. The MOF monitors government and government-guaranteed borrowing and manages gov- ernment debt. The M in is t ry of Indus try and Trade performs the licensing of imports and exports of goods and services together with other activities w i th in the scope of its authority, and it also monitors licensees' compliance with qua l if ica t ion requirements and licensing regu la t ions. The Customs Control Agency performs customs control and, w i th in the scope of its authority, foreign exchange control. Authorized banks and authorized institutions that are licensed to carry out certain types of bank ing operations and perform delegated respon- s ib i l i t ies for mon i tor ing compliance w i th foreign exchange legislation serve as foreign ex- change control agents. No. No. There are no specific restrictions on the export of refined precious metals. Control over the fore ign trade of ref ined prec ious metals, however, is maintained in the same manner as that applied to other goods. For purposes of trade, however, refined gold bu l l ion is classified as a fore ign exchange asset. Domestic currency notes may be exported w i thout restriction. Resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $ 10,000 with- out documents cer t ify ing the legal origin of the funds; when exporting foreign currency notes exceeding $10,000, documents regarding the origin of the funds must be presented to the customs authorities. The export of foreign currency notes by nonresident natural per- sons must be carried out in accordance with the declaration prepared by them at the time of entry. In the event that the amount being exported is more than the amount indicated in the declaration, the nonres ident is required to present documents regarding the origin of the fund s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically KAZAKHSTAN Resident Accounts 501 In accordance with the law "On Foreign Exchange Regulations," natural persons whose permanent residence is in Kazakhstan and those who are temporarily l iv ing abroad or who are employed by the civil service are considered residents. Resident juridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions through bank ac- counts at authorized banks only. Effective March 14, 2002, resident juridical persons may credit foreign exchange they have acquired to effect payments under a private external loan that is obtained against a government guarantee to special accounts opened by them at authorized banks. Resident jur id ical persons may withdraw foreign exchange from their bank accounts to pay wages to nonresident employees and to cover expenses related to travel abroad by employ- ees on official business prior to the beginning of business travel. Natural persons who are engaged in investment or entrepreneurial activities and are unin- corporated may open foreign exchange bank accounts; the procedure for the use of this account is identical to that governing accounts of juridical persons. However, transactions involving entrepreneurial activities and transactions to settle contracts between juridical persons as a th i rd party may not be effected through foreign exchange bank accounts of natural persons. Approval required An NBK license is required to open these accounts. Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. An NBK license is required and, effective March 14, 2002, a license holder may not be in arrears to authorized banks in Kazakhstan, and must open an account at a foreign bank w i th in six months of the date the license is obtained. A license from the NBK is required to open these accounts. All domestic currency accounts are convertible; however, resident juridical persons may acquire foreign currency in the domestic currency market only for purposes specified in the legislation. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports In order to purchase foreign exchange, resident jur id ical persons must submit documentary evidence of the purpose of the transaction, including invoices. A transaction passport must be compiled for each import transaction in excess of the equivalent of $5,000, first at the serving bank and subsequently at the customs au thor i t ies (and effective March 14, 2002, NBK licensing is required). The transaction passport is checked to verify compliance with the terms of the import contract and is monitored by the customs authorities and an author- ized bank un t il completion. Importers must ensure that the value of goods imported into the country is equal to the amount paid for them. If the goods are not delivered, the importer must re fund the funds that had been previously transferred to the importer's account within ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 KAZAKHSTAN Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas the period established in the contract, but no later than 120 calendar days following the date of the transfer, unless stipulated differently in the NBK license. Deferments of payment or delivery of imports (commercial lending) for a period exceeding 120 calendar days are treated as capital transactions. Foreign currency purchased by resident juridical persons that is not used for the designated purpose within 30 calendar days of its acquisition must be sold in the domestic currency market at the current market rate. Import licenses are required for 12 categories of goods. There are lists of goods that require an import license or a special license that is issued with governmental approval. On the basis of the Lists of the 1961 Single Convention on Nar- cotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and the 1988 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which Kazakhstan signed in 1997, a list has been established of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors, and poisonous substances that are subject to controls. There is also a list of multicomponent medicines containing small quantities of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and their precursors that are not subject to controls. A quota has been established for imports of crushing, forged, and other metallic balls in the quantity of 3,000 metric tons through end-2002, and a license is required for these imports. A quota has also been established for imports of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages (other than beer) in the quantity equal to 20% of their annual domestic output, and a license is required for their imports. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to a VAT of 16%; to excise taxes, if the same taxes apply to domesti- cally produced goods; and to customs charges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to credit export proceeds in foreign exchange to a bank account at an authorized bank within 120 calendar days of the shipment date, unless stipulated differently in the NBK license. In the event that export proceeds are not received within 120 calendar days and, effective March 14, 2002, the amount exceeds the equivalent of $5,000, the ex- porter must obtain an NBK license or reimport the goods. An NBK license is required to credit export proceeds to accounts at foreign banks. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Supporting documents must be presented. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes If an export transaction is deemed a capital transaction (i.e., having a deferred payment period exceeding 120 days), the exporters may not dispose of foreign exchange proceeds without obtaining a license and/or registration certificate. There are lists of exports that require a license or a special license that is issued with gov- ernmental approval. There is a list of goods that require an export license in accordance with the international obligations of Kazakhstan. Certain goods are subject to customs duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments to be made by residents to nonresidents must be supported by documents indicat- ing the validity of payments (contract, agreement, accord, etc.) to an authorized bank. Ef- fective March 9, 2002, current transfers exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 (previously, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Quantitative limits KAZAKHSTAN 503 $500) by natural persons must be effected through an authorized bank by opening an ac- count and presenting supporting documents. Deferment of the delivery of services or payments for services provided for a period of more than 120 days is treated as a capital transaction, and an NBK license is required to effect prepayments exceeding the equivalent of $5,000. When reinsuring with a nonresident insurance (reinsurance) company, the liability retained by the resident insurance (reinsurance) company must represent at least 5% of the total amount if liability of the maximum liability of an insurance (reinsurance) company under an individual insurance or reinsurance agreement exceeds 10% of the company's equity capital and insurance reserves. A domestic resident insurance (reinsurance) company may assign insurance risks outside the country for reinsurance to a nonresident reinsurance company directly or through a nonresident insurance broker if the company possesses a specific rating from one of the rating agencies. A list of rating agencies and their minimum ratings has been established by an authorized state body. The total amount of insurance premiums paid by the assignor to nonresident reinsurance organizations, less commissions received from them by the assignor, must not exceed 85% of the total amount of insurance premiums received under insurance agreements (with con- sideration for those paid by reinsurance organizations) within a full fiscal year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Investment-related payments Repayments of loans and payments of amortization of direct investments, dividends and interest, and rent on real estate are subject to registration or licensing. Payments of leasing fees for real estate owned by nonresidents are considered capital transactions and require an NBK license. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence for the validity of the payments must be submitted. Initial invest- ments in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Payments for travel Resident and nonresident juridical persons are entitled to withdraw funds from their foreign exchange accounts to pay expenses connected with travel of a juridical person's employees on foreign business trips. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Current foreign exchange transactions in the form of onetime transfers by resident and non- resident natural persons in an amount up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be effected through authorized banks without opening an account and/or presenting supporting docu- ments. For transfers in excess of this amount without the relevant documents and totaling more than $50,000 in one month, a bank is required to provide information to the NBK regarding the person in question and the transactions performed. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards is permitted only for purposes of paying business travel and foreign representation expenses, and their use for foreign trade operations and foreign exchange transactions that are subject to licensing is prohibited. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 KAZAKHSTAN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Earnings from services performed for nonresidents must be deposited in a bank account at an authorized bank w i th in 120 calendar days from the date of services. An NBK license is required for amounts in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 not received w i th in this period. The amounts may be deposited in accounts at foreign banks, provided that the appropriate NBK license has been obtained. Restrictions on use of funds When a transaction is treated as a capital transaction, a license and/or registration certificate is required to dispose of the funds. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchases from nonresidents by residents are subject to prior NBK licensing with the ex- ception of brokerage and dealer activities by banks. Subsequent transactions between residents are classified as trading and subject to NBK authorization; the trading of instru- ments w i th a rating no lower than A (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service) does not require NBK authorization. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of shares from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Sale or issue abroad by residents Investments of funds exceeding the equivalent of $ 100,000 in foreign enterprises that in- volve issues of stocks requ ire an NBK license and NBK registration. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchases in excess of the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchases by residents of bonds from nonresidents are subject to NBK licensing. Subse- quent trading bonds between residents are classified as trading and subject to NBK authori- zation. Effec t ive Ju ly 15, 2002, the following are exempt from these requirements: stocks of international f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and stocks of foreign issuers with a m in imum rating of A (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service). Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by residents of bonds of nonresidents are subject to licensing by the NBK, with the exception of brokerage and dealer activities by authorized banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior NBK no t i f ica t ion of the forthcoming issue and its prospectus and a report on the out- come are required. Investments of funds in designated enterprises abroad involving issues of stocks require a license from the NBK and registration with the NBK when the sale ex- ceeds the equivalent of $100,000. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equ iva lent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK, with the exception of purchases of government-issued securities. Purchases of securities from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Pur- chases of bills of exchange from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing when the payment is deferred for a period in excess of 120 days. Purchase abroad by residents An NBK license is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 505 Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the NBK is required for sales exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply to collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Present legislation has established only the concept of derivative instruments and does not define them. The accounting and registration of transactions with derivative securities traded on the organized securities markets are performed in accordance with the rules for securities exchange trading established by the trader. The foreign exchange legislation regulates operations in underlying assets of financial in- struments, but it does not directly regulate derivative financial instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective March 14, 2002, a license from the NBK is required for lending operations in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 with a maturity of more than 120 days, with the excep- tion of the following: (1) export/import transactions considered to involve transfers not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000; (2) investments by residents in securities issued by financial institutions in Kazakhstan; and (3) deposits of foreign currency obtained from a nonresident to the accounts of third parties in the form of (a) government and government- guaranteed credits; (b) credits obtained from foreign banks and not guaranteed by the gov- ernment that entail the use of documentary forms of settlements; or (c) credits not guaran- teed by the government that are contracted for financing export/import transactions that are insured by foreign government export credit agencies (in accordance with an established list). To residents from nonresidents A registration certificate from the NBK is required for operations with a maturity of more than 120 days and in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits mentioned above apply. To residents from nonresidents A registration certificate from the NBK is required for credits in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 with a ma tur i ty of more than 120 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments abroad by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Inward direct investment A certificate of registration from the NBK is required for residents to solicit foreign in- vestments in excess of the equivalent of $100,000. Investment and ownership in the local insurance industry are subject to the following re- strictions: (1) nonresident insurance companies may not open branch offices locally, and other nonresident companies—other than holding companies with subsidiary insurance companies —are prohibited from creating subsidiary insurance companies locally; (2) non- resident insurance brokerage firms are prohibited from opening branch offices and repre- sentative offices locally, and other nonresident companies are prohibited from participating in the creation of an insurance brokerage locally; (3) jur id ical persons registered in an off- shore zone or juridical persons whose authorized capital includes juridical persons regis- tered in an offshore zone may not open an insurance company locally; and (4) at least one- third of the members of the board of directors and executive board of an insurance or rein- surance company with nonresident participation must be Kazakhstani citizens. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 KAZAKHSTAN Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Transfers of funds from residents to nonresidents for real estate are subject to NBK licensing. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transfers of funds in excess of $100,000 from nonresidents to residents for purchases of real estate are subject to NBK registration. Sale locally by nonresidents An NBK license is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Credits by residents to nonresidents in foreign currency for a term of more than 120 days are subject to NBK licensing. To residents from nonresidents Credits by nonresidents to residents for a term of more than 120 days and in an amount equivalent to more than $100,000 are subject to registration with the NBK. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks Nonresident natural persons are entitled to transfer abroad their funds without restriction upon presentation of supporting documents. In order to transfer their own funds to a bank account abroad, resident natural persons must present an NBK-issued license to hold an account abroad. An NBK-issued banking license is required to open an account with the exception of a correspondent account. Prudential standards must be observed, Authorized banks may provide credits in foreign currency to resident and nonresident ju- ridical persons only in noncash form. Settlement in foreign exchange of credits received in domestic currency and of payment of interest and other charges on them are prohibited, except in cases where these settlements are effected between residents and nonresidents. A list is maintained of securities that banks may purchase, Investments abroad by resident banks are limited by the ratio set for the placement of their own and borrowed funds in domestic assets. Direct (immediate) or indirect (through participation in the authorized capital of other ju- ridical persons) participation by a bank in the authorized capital of another juridical person may not exceed 10% of the bank's equity capital. Direct participation by a bank in the au- thorized capital of a jur id ical person through the transfer of ownership to the bank of stocks previously accepted as collateral, appraised at their fair value determined in accordance with international financial reporting standards, may not exceed 25% of the bank's equity capital. NBK approval is required for the establishment or acquisition of a subsidiary by banks. Banks are prohibited from performing business operations and transactions not re- lated to banking and from participating in the authorized capital of juridical persons, except in the case of (1) participation in authorized capital banks, private pension savings funds, pension asset management companies, investment funds, insurance companies, leasing companies, and juridical persons whose stocks are listed on the stock exchange, provided that the amount does not exceed 15% of the total number of stocks issued by a single is- suer; (2) participation in the authorized capital of juridical persons that are part of the fi- nancial market infrastructure and/or are engaged in automating the activities of banks and institutions performing certain types of banking operations; (3) participation in the author- ized capital of organizations engaged in professional activities in the securities market; (4) participation in the authorized capital of juridical persons in cases where stocks of these organizations accepted as collateral become the property of the banks in accordance with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities KAZAKHSTAN 507 the terms of the security agreement before they are sold by the banks; (5) activities related to management of the property and affairs of insolvent debtors in bankruptcy proceedings; and (6) the performance of transactions with bonds of juridical persons whose securities are listed on the stock exchange. Representative offices of nonresident banks may be opened with the consent of the NBK. The opening of branches of foreign banks in Kazakhstan is prohibited. The opening of a subsidiary nonresident bank and the acquisition of more than 50% of the stocks of a resi- dent bank by a nonresident bank is possible, provided that the nonresident bank's represen- tative office has been in operation domestically for at least one year. Nonresident juridical persons, including banks, may hold more than 10% of the stocks of a resident bank, provided that they have a rating that is not below the rating of Kazakhstan by one of the major international rating agencies, a list of which is established by the NBK. The following requirements must be observed in the establishment and operations of banks with foreign participation: (1) the total declared authorized capital of banks with foreign participation must not exceed 50% of the total declared authorized capital of all Kazakhstani banks, except in cases per- mitted by the NBK; (2) at least one member of the supervisory board of a bank with foreign participation must be a citizen of Kazakhstan who has worked in an executive capacity for not less than three years in a bank operating in Kazakhstan and has knowledge of Kazakh- stani banking and civil legislation; (3) a bank with foreign participation is required to place resources in domestic assets in an amount and in accordance with procedures established by the NBK —a list of domestic assets is established by the NBK; and (4) at least 70% of the total employees of the bank must be citizens of Kazakhstan. The NBK has the right to im- pose additional requirements on banks with foreign participation with respect to the makeup of their governing bodies, the list of banking operations they may perform, pruden- tial standards, other binding rules and limits, and reporting procedures. Juridical persons registered in offshore zones or having affiliated persons registered in off- shore zones, or natural persons who are participants (founders, shareholders) of juridical persons registered in offshore zones, the list of which is established by the NBK, may not be founders or shareholders of resident banks. (This restriction does not extend to banks with an individual credit rating no lower than A from one of the rating agencies, a list of which is established by the NBK.) A nonresident bank that is the founder of or participant in a bank is required to submit, in addition to other necessary documents, written confirmation from a bank supervisory body of the relevant state that the bank possesses a current banking license and that the bank is subject to supervision on a consolidated basis. A nonresident juridical or natural person who is a founder of a bank is required to append to an application for a permit to open a bank —in addition to other necessary documents— (1) information on the participation of the bank in the authorized capital of other banks and financial institutions; and (2) a written statement from an authorized body (for nonresident banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant state to the effect that the person is allowed to participate in the authorized capital of a Kazakhstani resident bank or a statement from an authorized body (for nonresident banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant state to the effect that such permission is not required by law in the state of this founder. The overall net foreign exchange position limit is 50% of a bank's equity capital. The (long and short) open foreign exchange position limits for currencies of countries with a sover- eign rating of no lower than A from Standard & Poor's (or a rating of a similar level from one of the other rating organizations recognized as international rating organizations) and, for euros, are 30% of a bank's equity capital. The short foreign exchange position limits for currencies of countries with a sovereign rating of between B and A from Standard & Poor's (or rating of a similar level from one of the other rating organizations) are 15% and 5% of a bank's equity capital, respectively. In all other cases, the short and long open foreign ex- change limits are 5%. Provisions specific to institutional investors General licenses are issued to pension asset management companies to perform transactions in the form of investments in nonresident securities using attracted pension assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 KAZAKHSTAN Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Pension asset-management companies may place the pension assets of each individual private pension savings funds under their investment management in the following finan- cial instruments and amounts, based on the total volume of pension assets (including the current volume of investments and the balance of funds on the investment accounts of pri- vate pension savings funds held by the custodian as the date the transaction is concluded): (1) not more than 10% may be held in the securities of international financial institutions; and (2) not more than 20% may be held in the nongovernment securities of foreign issuers with a rating of A (based on the Standard & Poor's and Fitch classification) or A2 (based on the Moody's Investors Service classification) and in the securities of foreign states (the proportion of securities with an A rating and minimum rating of a rating must not be more than 10% for each category of securities); and (3) not more than 20% (prior to August 31, 2002, 10%) of the total pension assets of a state pension savings fund may be invested in securities of international f inanc ial institutions (including the current volume of invest- ments and the balance of funds on the investment accounts of the state pension savings fund held by the custodian as of the date the transaction is concluded). Pension asset-management companies are required to place not less than 35% of the pen- sion assets of each ind iv idual private pension savings fund under their investment man- agement in government securities of Kazakhstan (including those issued in compliance with legislation of other states), except for securities issued by local government authori- ties, and not less than 45% (prior to August 31, 2002, 50%) of the pension assets of a state pension savings fund must be placed in government securities (including those issued in compliance with legislation of other countries), except for securities issued by local gov- ernment authorities. Insurance companies are required to invest insurance reserves in the following reserve as- sets in such a way that the local va lue of the reserve assets is not less than the total amount of insurance reserves (as a percentage of the amount of insurance reserves): (1) government securities of Kazakhstan ( inc lud ing those issued in compliance with legislation of other states) (40-80%), including government securities issued by local executive government authorities (up to 10%) and put into circulation in the trading systems of the KASE, the purchase of which with pension assets is permitted by the NBK; (2) term deposits (up to 20%) and demand deposits (5-10%) (including those in foreign currency) at local Tier 2 banks that are in the first group for conversion to international standards in accordance with NBK requirements, or at a subsidiary banks whose nonresident parent banks have a long- term, short-term, and ind iv idual rating not lower than A from any of the rating agencies, a list of which is established by the NBK, and that have met the requirements of the program for conversion to international standards; (3) stocks of Kazakhstan issuers (including de- pository receipts issued for such stocks in accordance with the legislation of other states) (up to 15%) and bonds of Kazakhstan issuers included in the KASE official list of category A securities (up to 20%); (4) mortgage bonds put into circulation in the trading systems of the KASE and the purchase of which with pension assets is permitted by the NBK (up to 10%); and (5) cash (up to 3%). An NBK license is required to conduct professional activities in the securities market, to operate a stock exchange, and to operate as a self-regulating organization of professional participants in the securities market. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January L The use of foreign currency, as we ll as payment documents denominated in foreign currency, in effecting domestic settlements was permitted in cases and under condi- t ions specified by legislative acts. Resident accounts March 14. A time l im it of six months was established for a license holder to open an ac- count at a foreign bank for which an NBK license was obtained. March 14. A requ irement was introduced under which a license would be issued to a resi- dent to open an account at a foreign bank only if the resident is not in arrears to authorized banks of Kazakhstan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 509 March 14. The right to acquired foreign currency was introduced for settlements with non- residents under contracts providing for LC forms of settlement for the entire period that the LC is valid. March 14. Resident juridical persons were allowed to credit foreign exchange they have acquired to effect payments under a private external loan that is obtained against a govern- ment guarantee to special accounts opened by them at authorized banks. Imports and import payments March 14. Import transactions involving transfers of funds exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 were subjected to NBK licensing. Exports and export proceeds March 14. A time l im it was established for residents to apply to the NBK for licenses to perform import transactions involving transfers of funds. In the application for an NBK license to perform such transactions and to determine if they involve a capital transfer, the applicant must indicate the deadline for the parties' execution in fu ll of the obligations in the license. March 14. A time limit was established for residents to apply to the NBK for licenses to perform export transactions involving transfers of funds. In the application for an NBK license to perform such transactions, the applicant must indicate the deadline for the par- ties' execution in f u ll of the obligations in the license. March 14. Export transactions involving transfers of funds exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 were subjected to NBK licensing. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 9. Foreign exchange transactions by natural persons in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 were required to be registered (previously, a transaction certificate needed to be submitted for transactions exceeding the equivalent of $500). Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations Provisions specific to institutional investors July 15. Trading of the following securities in Kazakhstan was permitted without the rele- vant clearance procedures: stocks of international financial institutions; stocks of foreign issuers with a m in imum rating of A (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service). March 14. The following were exempted from the NBK licensing requirement: (1) ex- port/import transactions considered to involve transfers not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000; (2) investments by residents in securities issued by financial institutions in Kazakh- stan; and (3) transactions involving depositing of foreign currency obtained as a credit from a nonresident to the accounts of third parties under: (a) government and government- guaranteed credits; (b) credits obtained from foreign banks and not guaranteed by the gov- ernment, which entail the use of documentary forms of settlements; and (c) credits not guaranteed by the government that are contracted for financing export/import transactions that are insured by foreign government export credit agencies (in accordance with an estab- lished list). August 31. The minimum limit for the investment of pension assets of a state pension sav- ings fund in government securities of Kazakhstan was reduced to 45% from 50%, and the maximum limit for the investment of pension assets of a state pension savings fund in secu- rities of international financial institutions was increased to 20% from 10%. August 31. Pension asset-management companies were allowed to invest pension assets in (1) debt securities of issuers with a m in imum rating of A; (2) stocks of issuers whose debt securities have a m in imum rating of A; and (3) securities of issuers with a credit rating of A (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service) in an amount equal to no more than 10% of the total volume of pension assets under investment management. These rules were accompanied by a si- mu l taneous reduction in the limit on the permitted amount of investment in similar securi- ties of foreign issuers with a m in imum credit rating of AA (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service) to no more than 10% of the total volume of pension assets under investment management. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya shilling. Unitary. The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign traveler's checks. The official exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate. The dollar is the principal intervention currency. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government-guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their cus- tomers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Kenya is a member of COMES A, the EAC, and RIFF. The Central Bank Act gives the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) the power to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 511 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. A copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, and a copy of the customs entry must be submitted. An inspection is required for all imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $5,000 or its equivalent. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a clean report of findings. Banks are allowed to effect clean payments (for imports) provided they obtain a pledge from the importer to submit the documents at a later date. Negative list The list includes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respec- tively. Exports of certain foods and agricultural products require special licenses to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 KENYA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase a maximum of 40% of shares of primary or secon- dary issues. A nonresident may not purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or pr imary issues. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts There is no control on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, the issue of securi- ties by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts The regu la t ions governing securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior CBK approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts CBK approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts CBK approval is requ ired for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 513 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure may not exceed 20% of an institution's core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Kiribati is the Australian dollar. A small number of Kiribati coins is also in circulation. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- legal tender change. The Bank of Kiribati (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes daily rates for 15 currencies on the basis of their respective rates against the Australian dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The BOK provides forward contracts of up to three months of maturity. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in any currency. Purchases and sales of for- eign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with the BOK, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Kiribati participates in PACER and PICTA. No. No. No. Only authorized dealers are permitted to own or trade in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n . r. Resident Accounts 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI 5 15 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. n.r. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. n.r. Negative list Imports of some goods are prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. n.r. Export licenses Export taxes Copra may be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds n.r. No. Controls on capital transactions These transactions are covered by the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 KIRIBATI Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all these transactions There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Yes. Inward direct investment The authorities encourage investments in the export-promoting or import-substituting sec- tors. All applications for foreign investment up to $A 250,000 must be submitted to the Foreign Investment Commission for approval. Applications with a larger capital contribu- t ion are subject to cabinet approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n .r. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase land or real estate. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. n .r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Legislation related to bank ing and prudential regulations related to lending and financial in s t i tu t ions are curren t ly be ing formulated. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. n .r. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Currency The currency of the Republic of Korea is the Korean won. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the won is determined on the basis of supply and demand. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency except won. Nonresidents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For this purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for current transactions as well as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic securities. For current transactions and payments Nonresidents may effect won-denominated current account transactions only through non- resident free won accounts. For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents are permitted to conduct transactions denominated in foreign currency, provided that the payments are made through foreign exchange banks. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes the policies governing most of the above functions. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, financial transactions with individu- als, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism are prohibited unless approved by the BOK. Payments arrears No. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 518 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to import and export gold except for gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade. Effective February 7, 2002, exports of domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared to customs, (previously, they were subject to BOK approval). Exports of foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be made freely. Effective February 7, 2002, exports in excess of $10,000 require customs declaration (previously, exports in excess of $10,000 and up to $50,000 required customs declaration and amounts in excess of $50,000 required BOK notification). Nonresidents may export up to $10,000 or the amount they exchanged during their stay in Korea. BOK no t i f ica t ion is required for amounts in excess of these limits. Residents and nonresidents must no t i fy the customs office if the amount of domestic cur- rency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $ 10,000. Residents and nonresidents must no t i fy the customs off ice if the amount of foreign cur- rency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed w i thout restriction. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification pur- poses without a quantitative ceiling. However, prior BOK notification is required for trans- fers abroad by individuals exceeding $50,000 a day. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Prior MOFE notification is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Remittances from these accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. Domestic currency accounts No. Convertible into foreign currency Remittances from nonresident free won accounts may be made freely, but remittances abroad from nonresident domestic currency accounts require notification to the BOK. Blocked accounts Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 519 Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list No. No. Yes. Licenses with quotas These are quantitative import restrictions on rice. The Korea Trade Commission may recommend quotas as a safeguard measure if it has determined that increases in certain imports have seriously harmed domestic industries. Other nontariff measures About 4,000 products are subject to special import approval procedures, mostly for health and other reasons, under the regulation on import notices. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are adjustment tariffs on 23 products. There are antidumping duties on 10 products. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopoly There is a state monopoly on the import of 18 agricultural products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Effective February 7, 2002, export earnings exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent must be repatriated within six months of receipt (previously, $50,000). However, they may be held abroad and used for overseas transactions in accordance with the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are export bans for environmental reasons on 13 six-digit items from the Harmonized System. There are quotas under the ATC and voluntary restraint on 4 six-digit Harmonized System items. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers of income from securities acquired through inheritance require BOK notification. There is no limit on payments for travel, but payments exceeding $10,000 or the equivalent must be declared to customs. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent must be repatri- ated to Korea w i th in six months of receipt (prior to February 7, 2002, $50,000). However, they may be held abroad and used for overseas transactions in accordance with the regula- tions on foreign exchange transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions are based on a negative list system. Proceeds from capital transactions in excess of $100,000 or its equivalent must be repatriated to Korea within six mon ths of accrual (prior to February 7, 2002, $50,000). These funds, however, may be held abroad and used for overseas transactions in accordance with the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Nonres iden ts may borrow stocks from residents up to the value of W 5 b i l l i on through brokerage houses w i thout approval from or reporting to the authorities. Foreign in s t i tu t ions are e l ig ib le to list the ir shares on the Korean Stock Exchange (KSE) in the form of depositary receipts. These ins t i tu t ions include international f inanc ial organiza- t ions, central or mun ic ipal governments, pub l ic organizations, and general companies. Foreign i n s t i t u t i o ns may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. However, the issuer must subm it a prior report to the MOFE and the Financial Supervisory Coun c il (FSC). The sale or issuance of foreign currency-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to a designated foreign exchange bank. The sale or issuance of won-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the MOFE. On ly the issuance of won-denominated securities with a maturity of less than one year re- qu i res MOFE approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of short-term securities abroad denominated in won require BOK approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other in s t rum en ts There are no con t ro ls for foreign exchange banks to issue money market instruments de- nominated in foreign currency in foreign money markets. Sales or issuances of foreign currency-denom ina ted bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the designated for- eign exchange bank. On ly issues by enterprises w i th unsound f inanc ial structures require MOFE approval. Residents may issue money market ins trumen ts denominated in won in the foreign money marke ts w i th the approval of the MOFE. Foreign in s t i tu t ions may issue collective investment securities in the domestic market, pro- vided that they establish themselves in Korea and submit a prior report to the FSC. How- ever, th is is not requ i red for sales of co l lec t ive inves tment securities by foreign investment trust companies. Acco rd ing to the Foreign Exchange Transaction Regu la t ion, residents may issue collective inves tment securities denominated in foreign currency in foreign markets. However, the issuer must subm it a p r ior report to the designated exchange bank. Residents may issue co l lec t ive inves tment securities denominated in domestic currency in foreign markets with the approval of the MOFE. There are no controls on the trad ing of over the counter-related derivatives if the transac- t i o ns are made th rough domestic foreign exchange banks. However, transactions in credit derivatives w i th domestic foreign exchange banks and those directly related to specific cap i tal t ran sac t ions requ i re BOK no t i f i c a t ion on ly. E f fec t ive February 7, 2002, security companies are permitted to carry out free ly transactions in derivatives —such as forwards, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 521 foreign exchange swaps, foreign currency swap options, and interest rate swap options — with nonresident juridical persons. Other transactions in derivatives require BOK approval Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on all derivative transactions by nonresidents involving the use of won- denominated financing. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Commercial credits in domestic currency of more than W 1 billion a borrower that are granted by institutional investors require MOFE approval. In addition, effective February 7, 2002, commercial credits in foreign currency of more than $10 million or its equivalent by companies require BOK approval (prior to this date, the amount was $300,000). To residents from nonresidents Only commercial credits with maturities of one year or less, granted to enterprises with unsound financial structures, require MOFE approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits and loans denominated in domestic currency of more than W 1 billion a borrower require BOK approval. To residents from nonresidents Only financial credits with a maturity of one year or less, granted to enterprises with un- sound financial structures, require MOFE approval. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Residents, other than banks, must notify or obtain approval from the BOK. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Under current regulations, notification to a foreign exchange bank is required. However, investments in excess of $ 10 million or its equivalent require prior notification to the MOFE when (1) the liabilities of the parent company exceed its total assets, i.e., it has negative net worth; or (2) the subsidiary had a negative net worth greater than $100 million, or half of its capital, or shows a continuous five-year deficit, excluding the accounting year when the business started to operate. In addition, prior notification to the MOFE is required for residents engaged in banking or business to invest in any other business. Equity participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in newly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is also al- lowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enterprise, approval from the FSC is required for financial institutions; notification to foreign ex- change banks is required for nonfmanc ial institutions and for the establishment of an office. Investments in public utilities, radio, and television are restricted. Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a negative list, inc lud ing about 0.2% of all industries listed in the Korean standard industrial classification. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no controls on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privi- leges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that involve advanced technology. Postinvestment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are subject to a notification requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by a foreign exchange bank unless it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The acquisition of real estate for business activities requires BOK approval. However, nei- ther approval nor notification is required for the acquisition of overseas real estate by for- eign exchange banks or residents if given as gifts or received through inheritance from nonresidents. Notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate and its associated rights other than real estate acquired from nonresidents. However, the acquisition of real estate with imported funds requires notification to a foreign exchange bank. No controls apply if the real estate was acquired in compliance with foreign exchange regulations. By residents to nonresidents BOK approval is required for all lending by residents to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Notification to the BOK is required for all lending to residents by nonresidents. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legaciesu By residents to nonresidents Transactions exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent require BOK no t if ica t ion. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants There is no limit on expenses relating to emigration settlement but transactions exceeding $ 10,000 or its equivalent must be reported to the customs office. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are prudential regulations on the assets/liabilities compositions of foreign exchange banks. Foreign exchange banks must maintain short-term assets in foreign currencies—with a maturity of less than three months —of at least 80% against short-term liabilities in foreign currencies, and long-term assets in foreign currencies —with a maturity of one year or longer —of at least 50% against long-term l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange banks must maintain positive maturity mismatches from sight to seven days. Any negative mismatch must not exceed 10% of total foreign currency assets from sight to one month. For reference purposes, foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the fund ing of maturities exceeding one year and amounts exceeding $50 million or its equivalent. Credits and loans of more than W 100 m i l l ion a borrower denominated in domestic cur- rency and granted by institutional investors require MOFE approval. Commercial and fi- nancial credits in domestic currency exceeding W 1 billion a borrower and those in foreign currencies, exceeding $10 million or its equivalent a borrower, that are granted by institu- tional investors require BOK approval. The reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts are 1-5% for resident ac- counts and 1 % for nonresident accounts. Nonresidents may acquire up to 10% of stocks w i thout restrictions; acquisition exceeding 10% requires approval of the FSC. The overall net open position (short-hand position) of foreign exchange banks measured by the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions, whichever is greater, is limited to 20% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month. Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 523 On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls imposed by the Securities Laws established by the FSC are as follows: (1) domes- tic securities investments by nonresident foreign nationals are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include investment ceilings, investment procedures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include securities' eligibility for investment and transaction procedures, etc.; and (3) issuance of overseas securities by resi- dents is regulated by the Regulations on Securities Issuance and Disclosure, which include the e l ig ib i l i ty of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting, etc. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds February 7. Exports of domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 required notification to customs (previously subject to BOK approval); and exports of foreign banknotes in excess of $ 10,000 required notification to customs (prior to this date, exports in excess of $10,000 and up to $50,000 required customs notification, and amounts in ex- cess of $50,000 required BOK notification). February 7. The amount above which export earnings are required to be repatriated within six months of receipt was increased to the equivalent of $100,000 from $50,000. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 7. The amount above which earnings from invisible transactions are required to be repatriated within six months was increased to the equivalent of $100,000 from $50,000. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments February 7. The amount above which proceeds from capital transactions are required to be repatriated within six months was increased to the equivalent of $100,000 from $50,000. February 7. Security companies were permitted to carry out freely transactions in deriva- tives, such as forwards, foreign exchange swaps, foreign currency swap options, and inter- est rate swap options, with nonresident juridical persons. Controls on credit operations February 7. The amount above which commercial credits in foreign currencies require BOK approval was increased to the equivalent of $10 million from $300,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le V I II Date of acceptance: Ap r il 5, 1963. Currency The cu r rency of K uw a it is the Kuw a i ti d ina r. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement C lass i f ica t ion C o n v e n t i o n al pegged a r rangement E f fec t ive J anu a ry 5, 2003, the exchange rate for the Kuwa i ti dinar is o f f i c i a l ly pegged to the do l lar at around a pa r i ty rate set at KD 0.29963 per $1 w i th in margins of ± 3.5%. Prior to th is date, the external va lue of the d inar was determined on the basis of a special weighted basket of currencies of Kuwa i t 's trade and f inanc ial partners, and the Central Bank of K uw a it (CBK) set the exchange rate vis-a-vis the dollar on the basis of the latest market quo ta t ions in re la t ion to the other currencies inc luded in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. O f f i c i al cover of forward opera t ions O f f i c i al coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. GCC central banks ma in ta in a regional arrangement to exchange GCC banknotes. Barter agreements and open accoun ts Yes. Adm in i s tra t ion of control In terna t ional secur ity restrictions In accordance w i th IMF E x e c u t i ve Board Dec is ion No. 144-(52/51) There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may free ly purchase and sell fore ign exchange. All trade w i th Israel is prohibited. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. On A p r il 2, 2002, the K uw a i ti au tho r i t i es no t i f i ed the IMF of measures taken to implement the re levant UN Security Counc il re so lu t ions with regard to anti-money laundering opera- t ions through transfers of funds in the name of charitable organizations and suspect accounts. In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Res tr ic t ions are imposed on Iraq. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (co ins and/or b u l l i o n) Con t ro ls on ex te rnal trade Mone ta ry au tho r i t i es and merchants registered w i th the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry (MC I) may impo rt and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18-karat fine; gold j ew e l ry may not be imported or sold un less it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufac tured, are subject to an import duty of 4%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to fo re ign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses KUWAIT 525 Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are requ i red for all commercial imports other than fresh f ru i ts and vegeta- bles. Licenses, except for wheat and f lou r, are issued f ree ly to registered K uw a i ti merchan ts and companies. To be registered, the importer must be e i ther a Kuw a i ti c i t i z en, a f i rm in wh ich all partners are Kuw a i ti nationals, or a shareholding or limited l i a b i l i ty company in which Kuwa i ti na t iona ls own at least 51% of the stock. Imports of the f o l l ow i ng goods are p roh ib i t ed: fireworks; oxygen; gas cy l inde rs; certain steel and asbestos pipes; pork and foodstuffs con ta in ing pork; alcoholic beverages; used vehicles over five years old; portable telephones; chewing tobacco; products, mach inery, and equ ipment that operate with ozone-depleting materials; fresh, ch i l l ed, frozen, or proc- essed bov ine meat and/or its derivatives; rum in ant animals imported f rom EU coun t r ies; and o l ive o il ( th ird compression) f rom Spain. As a precautionary measure, imports of fresh, ch i l led, or frozen bovine, buffa lo, camel, gazelle, goat, and sheep meats from coun t r ies affected by u lcera t ive stomatitis are tempo- ra r i ly proh ib i ted; imports of the above-men t ioned meats are permitted f rom Ind ia and Pak is tan. There are also p roh ib i t ions on the impo r ta t ion of goods or goods in cer ta in types of packag- ing for moral or re l ig ious reasons. Impor ts of i n d u s t r i al equ ipm en t, m a ch in e ry, and the ir spare parts r equ i re indu s t r ial licenses va l id for one-time use on ly. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed indu s t r i al estab- l i shm en ts w i th the approval of the Indu s t r i al Deve lopment Commission at the MC I. P r iva te imports of personal objects may be permitted under ind iv idual or specific licenses. Regis- tered importers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers mus t job ta in specific licenses for ind iv idual commodities, wh ich are also va l id for one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 KUWAIT Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries, and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. Kuwait applies the un i fo rm tariff structure of the GCC. A m in imum tariff of 4% applies to non-GCC imports, wh i le no tar iffs apply to imports with at least 40% local value added from other GCC members. Imports of foodstuffs, as well as some machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials, are exempt from import duties. Kuwait applies higher tariffs in industries where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local market. Tariff rates d iffer depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in ques- tion. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic value added, protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing imports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5% in the case of consumer goods. The max imum du ty imposed on products that compete with lo- cally manufactured goods is 100%. Effective Ju ly 15, 2002, as part of the Arab Free Trade Zone, Kuwait started a 4% annual reduction of import duties on goods from Arab Free Trade Zone countries to eliminate the tar iff by 2005. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and poultry, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh f ru i ts, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Exports of arms and am- munition also require licenses. With quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature No. No. Yes. Capital Transactions The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwait Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 527 Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls apply to banks and financial institutions subject to CBK supervision. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Government approval is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwait. Foreigners are allowed to own up to 100% of Kuwaiti companies, subject to conditions determined by the Council of Ministers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only GCC nationals may purchase real estate of up to 3,000 square meters for private resi- dence purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. No. Borrowing abroad Controls apply to the sale or issue of bonds or other debt securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion limits may not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and in some cases, lower limits are set. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 KUWAIT Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments April 2. The Kuwaiti authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to implement the rele- vant UN Security Counc il resolutions with regard to anti-money laundering operations through transfers of funds in the name of charitable organizations and suspect accounts. July 15. Import duties on goods from Arab Free Trade Zone countries began to be reduced by 4% annually, so as to phase them out fu l ly by 2005. Exchange arrangement January 5. The exchange rate of the dinar was o f f ic ia l ly pegged to the dollar. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Repub l ic is the Kyrgyz som. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The o f f i c i al exchange rate of the som against the do l lar is de f ined as the average-weighted exchange rate of in te rbank fore ign exchange market transactions for the week. The Na- tional Bank of the Kyrgyz Repub l ic (NBKR) participates and intervenes in the interbank foreign exchange market to smooth temporary market f lu c tu a t ions as necessary. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la teral payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in any conve r t ib le currency. There are agreements or se t t lement procedures w i th coun t r ies of the FSU and, e f fec t ive August 5, 2002, Ma lays ia. Regional arrangements There are agreements w i th the In ters ta te Bank of the CIS. Administration of control The NBRR has respons ib i l i ty for manag ing gold and foreign exchange reserves and for i s su ing fo re ign exchange licenses to commercial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) On March 7, 2002, an agreement was reached w i th the Par is C l ub on the con so l ida t ion of the Kyrgyz R e p u b l i c 's b i l a t e r al debt, according to w h i ch the Kyrgyz R e p u b l i c 's external debt-service payments due from December 6, 2001, th rough December 5, 2004, w i ll be restructured. On that same date, bilateral agreements were reached w i th members of the Paris C lub that are creditors of the Kyrgyz Repub l ic. B i la te ral nego t ia t ions w i th cred i tors that are not members of the Par is C lub are near ly completed. All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBKR have p r io r i ty in pu rcha s ing and also the r ight to participate as sellers in the market. If the government and the NBKR do not exercise that right, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. Transactions in precious metals (standard and un iform ingots) performed by com- me rc ial banks are governed by Regu la t ion No. 30/5; amendmen ts and add i t ions governing t ransac t ions i n v o l v i ng the acceptance of prec ious metals as collateral were made to th is regu la t ion on March 25, 2003. Effec t ive December 9, 2002, the purchase and sale of u n i- form ingots of precious metals domestically by na tural and ju r id ical persons are governed under R e so lu t ion No. 834. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of fo re ign cu r rency are not sub ject to res t r ic t ion, prov ided that they are declared to customs for s ta t is t ical purposes. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted and must be registered with the NBKR for statistical purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Balances of som accounts opened in Kyrgyz banks are subject to statistical reporting. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for imports of alcohol and alcohol products, raw materials and corn- ponents for the production of commercial petroleum products, and tobacco. Negative list Open general licenses Effec t ive January 1, 2003, Kyrgyz Repub l ic Government Resolution No. 402 came into effect, requiring customs stamps on all imported medicines, as well as imposing mandatory customs labeling. This list includes weapons; ammunition; explosives; poisons; psychotropic narcotics; pub- lications, photographs, photographic plates, negatives, exposed f i lm, video recordings, and graphic works containing information that may harm the political and economic interests of the Republic, state security, or public order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by law. Imports of nuclear materials, technologies, and equipment; special nonnuclear materials; and radioactive sources of ionizing radiation are regulated by the government. Open, general, and single-use licenses are issued. OGLs are issued for a period of up to one calendar year. Imports under OGLs may be carried out under one or several contracts, and the nature of the transactions must be specified. The following products are subject to li- censing: encryption equipment; weapons and military hardware; special equipment for their produc t ion; m i l i tary un iforms, clothing, and accessories; specifications and technical documentation for products intended for military use; gunpowder and explosives; nuclear materials, technologies, equipment, and devices; special nonnuclear materials; sources of radioactive radiation; materials, equipment, technologies, and scientific and technical in- formation that are intended for peaceful purposes but could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction; precious metals, from ores to scrap and waste; natural pre- cious stones, from powders to recovered materials; precursors; high-potency poisons; haz- ardous waste; narcotics and psychotropic substances; tobacco; alcohol and alcohol ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 531 products; ozone-depleting substances and products; and works of art and antiquities that are of significant artistic, historical, scientific, and other value. Quotas are applied on imports of alcohol and alcoholic products. Excise taxes apply to ethyl alcohol (wood and grain), alcohol products, tobacco products, jewelry made of precious stones and metals, crystal products, clothing made from fur and skins, gas-operated arms and firearms, petroleum products, coffee, cocoa, and rugs. Effective January 1, 2002, the number of tariff bands was reduced to four (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%) from six (zero, 5%, 6.5%, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%). Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Export contracts for the fo l low ing are subject to mandatory registration: fish and fish prod- ucts; grains; soybeans; ethyl alcohol; raw materials for the production of ferrous and non- ferrous metals; crude oil; petroleum products; natural gas; electricity; mineral and chemical fertilizers; casein; wood, sawn timber, and lumber materials; raw hides; cotton; tobacco; wool; flax fiber; cobalt and products thereof; rare metals; aluminum oxide; and ferrous and nonferrous metal waste and scrap. Effective January 23, 2003, the export and reexport of controlled products are subject to mandatory licensing. The list of controlled products includes raw materials and supplies, equipment and tech- nologies, scientific and technical information, work and services, dual-use products and intellectual property that are included in the National Control List of the Kyrgyz Republic and that could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction or means for their delivery, as well as other types of weapons and military hardware. Exports of leaf tobacco, cured tobacco, and nonferrous metal waste and scrap are subject to licensing. Other exports that require a permit from the government include wild animals, wild plants, ivory, horns, hooves, coral, and similar materials. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on securities market instruments are enforced by the National Securities Market Commission (NSMC) under the president of the Kyrgyz Republic, except with respect to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC the fo l low ing: (1) debt securities issued by state and local governments; (2) securities is- sued or guaranteed by the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, by the NBKR, or by local government authorities with the exception of certificates that are subject to the require- ments under Article 2 of the Securities Market law; (3) bills of exchange; and (4) docu- mented payment obligations arising in the course of usual business activities that are valid for a period not exceeding one year. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Acquisitions exceeding 5% of an issuer's statutory capital or 5% of its stock shares must be reported to the NSMC. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase shares in accordance with general regulations provided for by the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic. An issuer is required to inform the NSMC of an acqu is i t ion by any person exceeding 5% of its statutory capital or exceeding 5% of its stock shares. The NSMC must also be informed when a shareholder stake in the issuer's stock shares increases to a level that is a mu l t ip le of 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents may sell shares in accordance with general regulations provided for by the leg is la t ion of the Kyrgyz Republic. The holder is required to inform the NSMC of the sale of shares if the shareholder reduces his stake to a level that is a multiple of 5% of the stock shares. The issuance and circulation of shares by nonresidents is controlled. Sale or issue abroad by residents Shares to be offered by a resident for sale and/or circulation abroad must be registered in advance in accordance with legislation. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance and c ircu la t ion of corporate bonds are regulated by the NSMC. The regula- t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature also apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to prior reporting to the NSMC. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to prior registration with the NSMC. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior registration with the NSMC. On collective investment securities Securities invested in joint-stock investment funds and mutual funds are regulated by the Law on Investment Funds. The operations of other funds are not at present regulated by the leg is la t ion. Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to the ir sale or issue abroad, these instruments must be registered with the NSMC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits There is currently no market in these instruments. The NBKR licenses credit ac t iv i t ies of f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. There are no controls on these transactions; however, all economic entities must report commercial (trade) credits received and issued to statistical agencies. The MOF is responsible for the management of off ic ial external debt. Private loans re- ceived by students from nonresidents with a maturity of more than 180 days must be re- ported to the NBKR. To residents from nonresidents The MOF maintains records on government debt and on private borrowings abroad. Guar- antees provided by the Kyrgyz government must be registered with the MOF. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment All direct investment enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Justice and statis- tical agencies. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 533 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the Ministry of Justice. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Maintenance of accounts abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transac t ions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Locally issued securities must be denominated in local currency. However, the use of for- eign currency, or of payment documents in foreign currency, is permitted in certain in- stances and according to procedures established by legislation. Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. In banks by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are established by the NBKR. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Investment funds are not permitted to invest, locally or abroad, more than 10% of their total assets in the securities of a single issuer or to hold more than 25% of the securities of a single issuer. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 7. Bilateral agreements with individual Paris Club creditors were reached. Changes During 2002 March 7. An agreement was reached with the Paris Club on the consolidation of the Kyr- gyz Repub l ic's external debt-service payments due from December 6, 2001, through December 5, 2004. August 5. A bilateral payments arrangement with Malaysia came into effect. December 9. New regulations on purchases and sales of ingots of precious metals by natu- ral and ju r id ical persons came into effect. Imports and import payments January 1. The number of tariff bands was reduced to four (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%) f rom six (zero, 5%, 6.5%, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%). Arrangements for payments and receipts March 25. Regulation No. 30/5, which regulates transactions on precious metals, was amended. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 1. Customs stamps were applied to imports of medicines and are subject to custom labeling. January 23. Exports and reexports of controlled products became subject to mandatory licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Lao kip. Although not expressly permitted legally, the Thai baht and the dollar are widely held and used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: a rate set by the commercial banks and a parallel market rate. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided the spread between the buying and selling rates remains less than 2%. In practice, however, la Banque pour le commerce ex- terieur du Laos (BCEL), the major state-owned commercial bank and the dominant transac- tor in the official exchange market, sets the commercial bank exchange rate, taking into account movements in the parallel market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements is imposed on receipts or payments but, in princi- pie, the Bank of the Lao P.D.R. (BOL), the central bank, provides and accepts only dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. A bilateral payments agreement is in effect with Vietnam. An inoperative bilateral payment agreement exists with Malaysia. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China and Vietnam. Administration of control Official transactions are handled by the BOL. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n.a. n.a. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold and silver require BOL authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency require BOL authorization. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents traveling abroad may take out foreign currency within the limit set from time to time by the BOL. Nonresidents are authorized to take out foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared upon arrival. Imports of domestic currency require BOL authorization. Persons entering the country may bring in unlimited amounts of foreign currency, but these must be declared to an immigration officer at the port of entry if the funds are to be exported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) other transfers from abroad; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened with commercial banks within Lao P.D.R., but only in cases where the payments are for specific goods and services that have been authorized by the BOL to be sold domestically for foreign exchange; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These ac- counts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers. Yes. Residents may open accounts abroad in exceptional cases with the approval of the BOL. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Kip accounts of nonresidents, namely embassies and international organizations, the credit balance of which derives from conversion of foreign currency, are considered as converti- ble accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in Lao P.D.R.; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to accept or deposit into their accounts foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the BOL. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. These accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not per- mitted to deposit kip belonging to residents into their convertible kip accounts. These ac- counts may be debited for (1) payments in kip and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buying rate of the commercial bank concerned. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 537 Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Margin deposits are required against LCs, and the rates are set by the BCEL and other commercial banks. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are issued automatically, but are subject to indicative limits on the overall level of imports. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Quotas are imposed on imports of cement, fue l, steel bars, and vehicles. The tariff structure is composed of six rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inputs, and certain essential con- sumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to luxury consumer goods, certain beverages, and tobacco. The Lao People's Democratic Republic applies the ASEAN free- trade agreement; imports from ASEAN countries are subject to CEPT rates of 5% to 30%. In addition to CEPT rates, a rate of 40% applies to luxu ry consumer goods. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from exports of wood and wood products must be surrendered to state-owned commercial banks after all payments due to the government have been settled, as follows: 100% for log exports, 80% for exports of sawed timber, and 60% for exports of wood products. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for m in ing, timber, and processed and semiprocessed wood products. These licenses are issued by the trade department under the Vientiane prefecture and p rov inc ial government authorities. Quotas apply on ly to timber. Exports of logs are prohibited. Other export taxes Taxes are lev ied on selected products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib les are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions require BOL authorization. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on these transactions. All derivatives transactions require BOL authorization. Controls on credit operations n.a. Controls on direct investment Direct investments are subject to the Direct Investment Promotion and Management Law. Controls on liquidation of direct investment These transactions are permitted after BOL scrutiny. Transfers of large sums may be made in installments according to a plan approved by the BOL. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on these transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized commercial banks may open accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Latvia is the Latvian lats. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The lats is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of Latvia (BOL) quotes daily the fixing rates of the lats against 34 convertible currencies and the price of gold. These rates are used for accounting purposes and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes real-time buying and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen). The spread between the buying and selling rate is 2%. No. No. All forward transactions may be conducted in the interbank market up to a maximum term of three years. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.r. Inoperative Inoperative bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Administration of control Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of ministers and approved by parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the BOL and the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or A license is required, trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Resident Accounts 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 540 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts There are no blocked accounts. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are v ir tua l ly no licensing requirements for imports except for alcohol (excluding beer), tobacco products, fue l, and other items that pose a health or safety risk. Licensing is almost automatic except for pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The processing time for license applications is no more than 10 business days, and license fees reflect processing costs only. According to the Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs), there are two specific tar iffs on sugar and cigarettes. The average of the basic ad valorem tariffs on nonagricultural goods is 2.20%, and the average MFN rate is 1.36%. Some final goods are exempt from customs duties. The average basic rate on agricultural goods is 13.61%, and the average MFN rate is 9.47%. Latvia maintains trade and economic cooperation agreements providing for MFN status with the following: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, the Czech Republic, the EFTA, Estonia, the EU, Hungary, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Russia, the Slovak Republic, Slo- venia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 541 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Nonresidents are not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies organizing raffles and gambling, except for nonresidents from the EU, associated countries, and coun- tries with which Latvia has concluded bilateral agreements. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of buildings is permitted. The purchase of land is not restricted, except for areas of land near borders and environmentally protected areas. Land to be used for agricul- tural and forestry purposes may be bought only if one-half of the paid share capital of the company (1) belongs to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment; (2) belongs to a group of the previous categories; or (3) is a public joint-stock company, shares of which are quoted on the stock exchange. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Exposure (including lending) to any Zone B country (except Estonia and Lithuania) must not exceed 25% of a bank's own funds. Total exposure to Zone B countries (except Estonia and Lithuania) must not exceed 200% of a bank's own funds. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of capital for any single foreign cur- rency and 20% of own funds for all foreign currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies may not invest more than 10% of their technical reserves abroad w i thout the prior permission of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Prior to October 10, 2002, private pension funds were not allowed to invest abroad more than 15% of their pension fund assets. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 LATVIA Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Investments in time deposits may be made only in banks licensed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, or an OECD member country. The property of a closed-end fund may be invested only in real estate located and registered in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, or an OECD member country. Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors October JO. The 15% limit on investment abroad by private pension funds was eliminated, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exchange rates are market determined, but the authorities may announce buying or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly con- ditions in the exchange market. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency except new Israeli sheqalim. No. No. Forward operations are allowed, provided that a minimum margin deposit of 20% is consti- tuted for each operation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Convention. No. No. No. The importation and exportation of gold coins require a certificate issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer that indicates the gold content and weight. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted The maintenance of these accounts is subject to the regulations concerning the control of banking and financial operations in anti-money laundering legislation (Law No. 318). Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. No. 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 LEBANON Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The maintenance of these accounts is subject to the regulations concerning the control of bank ing and f inanc ial operations in anti-money launder ing legislation (Law No. 318). Nonresident non fmanc ial entities may hold onshore accounts in Lebanese pounds freely. Nonresident banks and f inanc ial institutions are prohibited from maintaining debit or credit accounts ( inc lud ing f iduc iary accounts) with resident banks and f inanc ial institutions, ex- cept for treasury b i l ls and certificates of deposit accounts after obtaining approval from the Banque du Liban (BDL). Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers must place with banks a prior deposit of 15% of the value of an LC in the same currency as the LC. No. In general, import licenses are ma in ly issued for health and security reasons and fraud pre- vention, and apply to about 3% (in value terms) of all goods imported into Lebanon. Li- censes generally apply to import of certain animal and plant products, hazardous and medi- cal substances, arms, ammunition, explosive materials, and certain telecommunications equ ipment and petroleum products, as well as a group of industrial products. Import proh ib i t ions apply to a list of products for the protection of health and the environ- ment as well as for safety and security reasons. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Ad- d i t iona l ly, certain commercial entities listed under the Arab Boycott List are banned from trad ing with Lebanon. Lebanon uses the Harmonized System Tariff, 2002 version. Customs valuation is on the basis of c.i.f. value; customs duties are generally ad valorem. The WTO valuation principle is also applied. The ad valorem rates vary between zero and 70%. There are preferential du ty rates for goods imported for industrial, agricultural, or pub l ic use. In addition to ad valorem duties, the fo l low ing other methods are used: (1) the bracket-based calculation in the case of cars, in which the value of a car is divided into two brackets and the total duty is the sum of the duties applied at each rate; (2) duties calculated on the basis of un i ts of measure, such as weight or vo lume (e.g., gasoline); and (3) combined duty calculated on an ad valorem and specific basis, so that the higher amount is collected (e.g., tropical fruits and chickens). In addition, excise duties are collected on alcoholic and nonalcoholic bever- ages, cars, cement, and fue ls. Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Conven t ion and has bilateral free-trade agree- ments with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Saudi Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the United Arab Emirates. Effec t ive February 1, 2002, the VAT is levied at a single rate of 10% on all goods and ser- vices, whether imported or domestically produced, except for some exempted goods and services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 545 State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of a limited number of products are prohibited for reasons of biodiversity conserva- tion, forest conservation, ecological security, and health. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Deposits and transfers exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 are subject to money- laundering prevention measures, as specified in Law 318 of 2001 (Fighting Money Laun- dering). Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Prior BDL approval is required for resident banks and financial institutions to issue shares locally or abroad. Nonresident banks, financial institutions, and money dealers must obtain approval from the BDL when purchasing treasury securities denominated in Lebanese pounds or certificates of deposit from the BDL. Funds used to purchase treasury securities or certificates of de- posit must originally have been Lebanese pounds that were converted from foreign ex- change specifically for this purpose. Purchase abroad by residents Ind iv idua ls may purchase debt securities from abroad freely. Banks and financial institu- tions, however, are only allowed to purchase bonds issued by the Group of Ten countries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior BDL approval is required for resident banks and financial institutions to issue bonds locally or abroad. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 LEBANON On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The promotion of and trading in foreign collective investment securities are subject to prior BDL approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior BDL approval is required for resident banks, financial institutions, and mutual in- vestment schemes to issue collective investment securities locally or abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The issuance and trading of derivative products require prior BDL approval. There are no controls on purchases of derivatives or any financial instruments from abroad. Banks, however, unlike financial institutions and brokerage firms, must obtain the prior approval of the BDL to engage in derivative transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchase abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits Banks are prohibited from extending credits in Lebanese pounds to the nonresident finan- cial sector. By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign investments in some sectors are subject to specified ceilings and, in some cases, to prior authorization. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All foreigners must obtain a license from the Council of Ministers to acquire real estate exceeding a certain maximum area. In addition, a ceiling is imposed on the total area that may be acquired in the capital city as well as in various Lebanese districts. Controls on personal capital transactions These transactions are permitted freely, provided that anti-money laundering regulations are followed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Offshore lending to nonresidents is prohibited. This control does not apply to loans granted by resident banks to nonresidents for commercial or investment activities executed in Lebanon. Fifteen percent of deposit accounts in foreign exchange, irrespective of their maturity, must be placed at the BDL. Effective February 28, 2002, 10% of all types of deposits, certificates of deposit, bonds, and loans contracted from the financial sector and whose remaining date to maturity is one year or less must be held in the form of liquid assets (previously, 15%) (BDL Decision No. 8068). Prior BDL approval is required for banks to acquire shares in foreign financial institutions. Foreign participation in the shares of Lebanese banks is limited in accordance with Law 308 of 2001 (Trading in Bank Shares). Foreign banks may establish fu l ly owned branches, subject to BDL approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 547 Open foreign exchange position limits The net foreign exchange trading position of banks (total open position less total structural position, the latter of which is defined as long term) may not exceed 1% of the Tier I capital regardless of resident or nonresident status of assets or liabilities. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments February L The VAT was levied at a single rate of 10% on all goods and services, whether imported or domestically produced, except for some exempted goods and services. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 28. The liquid asset requirement for all types of deposits, CDs, bonds, and loans contracted from the financial sector and whose remaining date to maturity is one year or less was reduced to 10% from 15% (BDL Decision No. 8068). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 5, 1997. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Lesotho loti. The South A f r ican rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The loti is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, how- ever, is not common in Lesotho. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements by or w i th residents of CM A member coun tr ies w i th all countries outside the CMA may be made to and from a nonres ident account in rand or in any other foreign currency. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Lesotho is a member of the CMA, w i th in which payments are unrestricted, except that transactions must be reported for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations w i th countries ou ts ide the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely s im i lar to those applied by Nam ib ia, South A f r ica, and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of current payments up to estab- l ished limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise based on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions accepting deposits, insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or On ly au thor ized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may ho ld gold, trade Controls on external trade Exports of gold f rom the CMA are p roh ib i ted. 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 549 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency from Lesotho are prohibited. Exports of foreign currency from the CM A by residents are prohibited; visitors may reex- port the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the country. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Only banks may hold these accounts, and approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Approval is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Funds in an emigrant's blocked loti account may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a family unit a year. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment, except with prior approval or special authorization from the CBL. Authorized dealers may permit, without the CBL's approval, advance payments of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if sup- pliers require it or if it is normal practice in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 LESOTHO Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Lesotho is a member of the SACU; all imports originating in any country of the SACU are unrestricted, except certain food items. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usu- ally licensed in conformity with SACU import regulations. Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. With certain exceptions, imports from outside the SACU must conform to a negative list and be licensed (e.g., ammunition, flora and fauna, and illegal drugs). Licenses with quotas Some food imports from countries within the SACU are subject to import licensing. Import taxes and/or tariffs Lesotho applies the external customs tariffs of the SACU. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export credit scheme is in effect, involving credit guarantees and pre- and post-shipment credits. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is limited to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Profit and dividend transfers are not restricted, provided the investment funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective December 31, 2002, the limit for an adult is M 130,000 a year and the limit for a child under 12 years of age is M 40,000 (prior to that date, M 100,000 and M 30,000, respectively). Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. Personal payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for payment of study expenses abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 551 Quantitative limits For study abroad, the limits are M 80,000 a year for a single student or M 160,000 a year for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not studying. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These instruments are not available in Lesotho. Export credits are available for up to six months; in certain circumstances, the maturity can be extended by six months. Longer-term credits require exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits requ ire exchange control approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents These credits require prior approval. However, wholly nonresident-owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not dis- rupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 LESOTHO Controls on direct investment The r u l i n gs on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whe ther the app l icant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Outward direct investment Outward direct investment is prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval is requ ired. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Prior approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior approval is required. M a in t en an ce of accoun ts abroad Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial cred i ts) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Pu rchase of lo c a l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f f e r e n t i al trea tment of deposit accoun ts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open fo re ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts An overa ll l im it of 20% is applied. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers December 31. The limits on travel were increased to M 130,000 a year for adults and M 40,000 for children under 12 years of age from M 100,000 and M 30,000, respectively. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Liberia is the Liberian dollar. The U.S. dollar is also legal tender and circulates freely. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The Liberian dollar is market determined, and all foreign exchange dealers including banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies, including the U.S. dollar, at market-determined exchange rates. The Central Bank of Liberia reserves the right to intervene to counter speculative movements. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control Yes. No. Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 LIBERIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Preshipment inspection is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan- tity, and the value of all goods to be shipped. Both final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than US$3,000. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items, including safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the MCI. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. Import taxes and/or tariffs The nominal average tariff rate is 11.7%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. n.r. Licenses generally are issued freely, including those for agricultural products, to ensure certification of quality and origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 555 Export taxes Export taxes are imposed on processed and unprocessed goods at the rates of zero and 2.5%, respectively, and on diamonds and precious metals, at the rate of 4%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers; however, information on the payment of amortiza- tion of loans or depreciation of direct investment is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. n.r. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of June 30, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure U n i t a ry Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Libya is the Libyan dinar. On Janua ry 1, 2002, the o f f i c i al exchange rate was devalued to LD 1 per SDR 0.608 from LD 1 per SDR 1. 224, effec t ive ly un i fy ing the dual exchange rate system. Previously, Libya had two exchange rates: the official exchange rate and the special rate, and most transactions, i n c l u d i ng oil exports and most pub l ic sector imports, took place at the official exchange rate. The Libyan d inar is pegged to the SDR at LD 1 per SDR 0.608 (prior to January 1, 2002, the off ic ial exchange rate was LD 1 per SDR 1.224). Effective June 15, 2003, the dinar was devalued to LD 1 per SDR 0.5175. The margin on sales of foreign exchange is 1%, effec- t ive Ap r il 1, 2003 (prior to th is date, 2%). A tax of 15% is levied on foreign exchange purchases, and a subsidy of 15% is granted on foreign exchange sales by the private sector. The d ifference between the tax revenue and subs idy expend i ture is used to f inance the Great Man-Made River Project (GMR). The fo l low ing are exempt from this tax: (1) all transactions in foreign exchange in the budget, i n c l u d i ng oil revenues; (2) all transactions made by pub l ic enterprises; and (3) the transfer- able portion of the salaries of nonresidents employed by the Libyan government. In addi- tion, a fee of LD 0.5 is applied to cash transactions to encourage the use of noncash opera- tions, such as LCs and bank transfers. Exchange subsidy A sub s idy of 15% is granted on foreign exchange sales by the private sector. Forward exchange market No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transac t ions w i th Israel are proh ib i ted. Transactions with other countries are made in conver t ib le currencies. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Agreements are ma in ta ined with Algeria, Malta, Morocco, and Tunisia. Outstanding bal- ances are settled in conver t ib le currencies every 90 days. The Central Bank of Libya (CBL) administers exchange controls and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, which is executed by the Secretariat of Economy and Commerce (SEC). No. No. Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The CBL imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic go ldsm i ths for manu fac tu re at prices announced from time to time. The 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 557 gold must be processed before it may be sold to the pub l ic. Imports of unworked gold are subject to a du ty of 15%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonres iden ts are not allowed to export Libyan currency. Residents and nonres iden ts may export any amount of foreign exchange for personal, non- commercial purposes through authorized banks. To control money laundering, effec t ive January 1, 2002, ceilings of $5,000 and $10,000 a transaction are enforced on the purchase of foreign exchange in cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan d ina rs by v is i t ing tourists may be reconverted upon departure. On imports Domestic currency Residents and non res iden ts are not allowed to import Libyan currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Ind iv idu al residents are allowed to keep fore ign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad w i thout restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign ex- change earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and mach ine ry needed for export p roduc t ion. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Approval is required to open these accounts. Nonresidents who are employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts, which may be credited w i th the ir leg i t ima te earnings. All other credits to nonres ident accounts requ i re the pr ior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by non res ident contractors unde r tak ing contracts in the ir own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors for contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior ap- proval of the CBL after subm iss ion of the prescribed evidence, bu t, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Funds brought in by nonres iden ts may be reexported if not used, after subm iss ion of evidence. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, the system is not applied. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Effec t ive February 2, 2002, authorized banks may not open an LC for private sector im- porters or for p u b l ic enterprises w i t h o ut an advance import deposit equal to at least 50% of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit the value of the import (prior to this date, the deposit requirement for public enterprises was 25%). Authorized banks may open LCs w i thout approval from the CBL. Before an LC is estab- lished, a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company must be submitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, pro- vided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the SEC. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Effec t ive March 16, 2002, import licenses are not required. Prior to that date, all imports required licenses, except for imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises for projects financed by the government. Importers may import only the types of products that are in accordance with their business specialty. Imports by nonresidents must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. With the exception of strategic goods (i.e., nine essential food items, medicines, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) re- tained by pub l ic corporations, all other goods may be imported by either pub l ic or private entities. Imports of the following are prohibited: Arabic lounge materials; candles; electro-oil heat- ers; hand brooms; iron, plastic, and wooden pipes; plastic barrels and bottles; plastic cov- ers; Portland cement; school supplies; telephone equipment; unpainted pottery; medical alcohol; organic and urea fertilizers; potash; soap bars; canned juices; chocolate not made with cacao; green vegetables; harissa; industrial f ru it powder; mineral water; olive oil; po- tato chips; eggs; poultry; pork meat and fats; preserved meats and vegetables; alcoholic beverages; used equipment and machineries; tractors; used cars; luxu ry cars; and yachts. Imports of the fo l low ing products are temporarily prohibited: bags, belts, canned vegeta- bles, chewing gum, chocolate made with cacao, clothing other than men's suits and over- coats, gloves, hun t ing guns, oriental rugs, ready-made feedstock, shoes, textiles other than those for manufacturing, and toys. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to* deal directly with produc- ers abroad and not through intermediaries. Imports are subject to customs du t ies and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the applicable customs duties. All products from Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, pro- vided domestic va lue added is at least 40%. Effec t ive January 1, 2002, imports by commer- cial pub l ic enterprises are exempt from customs duties. Foreign exchange purchases by the private sector are subject to a 15% tax. A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. This company is, however, currently under liquidation. Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months of shipment. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Exporters are allowed to retain up to 100% of nonhydrocarbon earnings, n.a. All exports require the opening of LCs. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the Export Promo- tion Council and supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on the ir exports. Exports of electricity, hides, nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), paper products, school supplies, scrap metals, and telecommunication services are prohibited. Exports or reexports of vegetable oils, wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 559 Without quotas Export taxes coffee, tea, sugar, and tomato paste—all of which are subsidized products —are prohibited. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the eco- nomic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, pro- vided that the paid-up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Information is not available on the pay- ment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects set up within the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred without restriction. Residents are allowed to purchase foreign exchange for tourism from authorized banks up to $10,000 in traveler's checks or $5,000 in cash. Nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, or foreign companies may remit the entire amount of their net salaries. Since January 1, 2002, 65% (previously, 50%) of their total net salary each month is exempt from the GMR tax if their work contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the em- ployer; and up to 75% of their total net salary is exempt if their work contracts specify that the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Purchase abroad of these instruments by residents requires approval. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. n.a. Pub l ic enterprises are allowed to sell any amount of foreign exchange they earn to open or settle credit through the banking system, provided they report the sources and uses of the foreign exchange. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Full foreign ownership is permitted, however, in ventures established in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board. Approval is granted for projects that lead to domestic job creation or training, use of local raw materi- als, transfers of technology, and inflows of foreign currencies. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Capital invested in projects set up in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred freely to the coun- try of origin. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for For- eign A f fa i rs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement January 1. The d inar was devalued to LD1 per SDR 0.608 from LD 1 per SDR 1.224, uni- fy ing the official and special exchange rates. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 561 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Ceilings of $5,000 and $10,000 a transaction were put in place on the purchase of foreign exchange in cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Imports and import payments January I. Imports by commercial public enterprises were exempt from customs duties. January I. The foreign exchange budget system was no longer applied. February 2. The deposit requirement for public enterprises was raised to 50% from 25%. March 16. Import l icenses were no longer requ ired. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January I. The proportion of net salaries that may be transferred by nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, or foreign companies that is exempt from the GMR tax was raised to 65% from 50%. Exchange arrangement April I. The margin on sales of foreign exchange was reduced to 1% from 2%. June 15. The dinar was devalued to LD 1 per SDR 0.5175 from LD 1 per SDR 0.608. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Currency The currency of L i thuan ia is the L i thuan ian litas. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Effec t ive February 2, 2002, the litas was pegged to the euro at the rate of LTL 3.4528 per €1. Prior to that date, the litas was pegged to the dollar at LTL 4 per $1. No. No. Any natural or ju r id ical person may enter into a forward exchange contract with a bank operating in L i thuan ia or in a foreign country without restriction. The majority of the trans- actions in the forward exchange market are conducted with nonresident banks (banks and their clients normally use this market to limit their open positions). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The payment system, payment instruments, and the relationship among the participants of the payment system in Lithuania are governed by the Law on Payments. The euro may be used for domestic cash payments and settlements. Prior to November 6, 2002, other foreign currencies could be used only for payments to and settlements with legal and natural persons of foreign countries who reside outside Lithuania. Effective th is date, foreign exchange may be used for all noncash domestic settlements, provided that the parties involved agree thereto. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of L i thuan ia (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. There is an agreement between the BOL and the National Bank of Belarus. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the proc- ess of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a banking law delegating to the BOL the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions involving domestic cur- rency must be effected through authorized credit institutions licensed by the BOL. Author- ized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresi- dents of Lithuania; the BOL may limit on a case-by-case basis the types of transactions that may be conducted. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with UN Resolutions 1333 and 1373, sanctions are imposed against indi- viduals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. 562 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 563 Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of domestic banknotes exceeding LTL 10,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Prior to November 6, 2002, when this requirement was lifted, juridical persons needed the permission of the BOL to hold accounts abroad. Effective this date, natural and juridical persons must report the opening and closing of these accounts to the tax authorities. n.r. n.r. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval required Approval is required if the legislation of the other country requires approval. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts Certain accounts are blocked by government resolutions in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons and as noted below. Certain food products, such as semiprocessed meat products, poultry, and fish, are subject to licensing. Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quanti- tative restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco may be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. There are licensing requirements governing trade in strategic goods and technology and certain oil products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 LITHUANIA Import taxes and/or tariffs A three-tier tariff structure exists consisting of (1) a "conventional" rate applied to coun- tries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement; and (3) an "autonomous" rate that is usually 5% higher than the MFN rate and is applied to all other countries. Imports entering under a majority of tar iff lines are du ty free; and most other tariff lines carry duty rates of 20% or less; how- ever, rates on agricultural products range as high as 87%. Some non-ad valorem duty rates remain in effect. On January 1, 2003, the weighted averages of these rates were conven- t iona l, 5 .1% (including agricultural and alimentary products, 13.8%; including industrial products, 2.2%); and autonomous, 7.64% (including agricultural alimentary products, 19.4%; including industrial products, 3.76%). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are licensing requirements governing trade in strategic goods and technology and certain oil products. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign investments in the following areas are prohibited: (1) national security and defense, except for investments by foreign entities that meet the criteria for European and transatlan- tic integration, provided that they are approved of by the State Defense Council; and (2) the organization of lotteries. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 565 On January 23, 2003, foreigners were allowed to acquire agricultural and nonagricultural land. Previously, foreign enterprises were allowed to acquire only nonagricultural land. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These transactions must be registered with the BOL. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Loans received f rom abroad must be registered with the BOL. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) These transactions must be registered w i th the BOL. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Pr ior to November 6, 2002, locally issued securities had to be denominated in the national currency. Effective this date, they may be in national or foreign currency. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies are subject to reserve requirements, which must be held in either dollars or euros in a special account at the BOL. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 25% of their capital, and the open position in individual currencies may not exceed 15% of the banks' capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Investment companies may only invest in "liquid" EEA and OECD securities, as defined by the Lithuanian Securities Commission. There is a limit on investment by pension funds in foreign securities, of which 20% must be in "liquid" EEA and OECD securities. Insur- ance companies require permission from the State Supervisory Authority to invest in non- EEA and non-OECD countries. Effective June 19, 2002, insurance technical provision funds must be invested in assets in the currency in which the insurance company's commitments are due, as established in the insurance or reinsurance contracts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement February 2. The litas was pegged to the euro at the rate of LTL 3.4528 per €1, replacing a peg to the dollar. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors November 6. Foreign exchange may be used for all noncash domestic settlements, provided that the parties involved agree thereto. The euro may be used for cash payments and settlements. November 6. BOL permission was no longer required for juridical persons to hold accounts abroad. November 6. Locally issued securities were allowed to be denominated in foreign currency. June 19. Insurance technical provision funds were required to be invested in assets de- nominated in the currency in which the insurance company's commitments are due. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 LITHUANIA Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions January 23. Foreigners were allowed to acquire both agricultural and nonagricultural land. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Luxembourg is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Lux- embourg franc and the Belgian franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28,2002, the Luxembourg franc, the Belgian franc, and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate Luxembourg participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, legal tender Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Luxembourg franc was set at Lux F 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Certain restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers for current international transac- tions in respect of Iraq, Myanmar, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and Zim- babwe. Restrictions in respect of Libya have been suspended in accordance with UN reso- lutions. Funds in relation to certain persons associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia are frozen. In accordance with EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activi- ties in Somalia are prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 567 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG Nonresident Accounts 568 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts Accounts affected by international security restrictions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. No. Yes. Payments for imports may be made freely. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (imports do not require an import license when im- ported from another EU member country), including many textile and steel products, dia- monds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with other EU countries, Luxembourg applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA. It also applies a system of quotas on some steel products originating in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine. A double-checking system (without quotas) is applied to imports of some steel products from the Czech Re- pub l ic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, and the Slovak Republic. Quotas are applied on a number of products from China, such as ceramics, porcelain, and shoes. The EU 's prior surveillance system is in force on imports of certain iron and steel products originating in non-EU countries. Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agri- cultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes LUXEMBOURG 569 Export licenses are required for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, such as arms, dual-use goods, and diamonds. Export licenses are also required for exports to coun- tries under UN embargo. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. These are applicable only to insurance undertakings. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. The euro, the Belgian franc, and the Luxem- bourg franc could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts March L The euro became the sole legal tender. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 LUXEMBOURG Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19,1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Macedonian denar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements The exchange market operates at two levels: wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia (NBRM)) and retail (households). The NBRM participates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the deutsche mark (from January 1, 2002, the euro) at a level that meets balance of payments objectives. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enter- prises have to be reported to the NBRM, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the NBRM publishes rates for 12 cur- rencies and deals at the published midpoint rates plus or minus a margin of 0.5%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, and natural persons. Foreign exchange bu- reaus may hold foreign exchange in cash form up to the specified maximum level, but must keep balances above this level in a special account with commercial banks. No. No. Effective October 14, 2002, forward foreign exchange operations are allowed for all resi- dents. Prior to this date, they were permitted only for banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements must be in denars except for (1) purchases or sales of foreign exchange by individuals from the authorized bureaus of exchange, (2) interest earnings on resident for- eign exchange deposit accounts, (3) valuations of contracts among residents, and (4) exten- sions of credits from authorized banks to residents for payments of current account liabili- ties to nonresidents. Inoperative An agreement is maintained with Slovenia. Administration of control The NBRM is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks, savings institu- tions, and foreign exchange bureaus. The MOF is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and credit operations of natural and juridical persons for transactions not controlled by the NBRM. The customs authorities are empowered to control the cross- border transfers of goods, banknotes, securities, and gold. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy administer the Foreign Trade Law. Effective October 15, 2002, a new foreign exchange law came into effect, extensively liberalizing capital account transactions. International security restrictions No. 571 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold producers must report all production, including qua l i ty and quantity sold. Processors are also required to report all quantities bought and processed. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold require NBRM approval. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective October 15, 2002, up to MDen 20,000 may be exported in any denomination (prior to this date, a maximum of MDen 5,000 in denominations of 10-, 20-, 50-, and 100- denar banknotes could be exported). E f fec t ive October 15, 2002, resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to export up to the equivalent of €10,000 without documentation (previously €2,500), and up to the amount declared to the customs upon arrival in the country. Effec t ive March 12, 2003, the limits are as follows: (1) for resident natural persons, up to the equ iva lent of €2,000 w i thout documentation and up to €4,000 with documentation, provided that the amount has been withdrawn from an account or purchased for travel ex- penses; (2) for nonresidents, up to the equivalent of €2,000 without documentation and up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country with documentation from the custom authorities. The limits governing exports apply. E f fec t ive October 15, 2002, resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to import up to the equivalent of €10,000 w i thout documentation (previously €2,500), and up to the amount declared on arrival in the country to the customs. Nonresident juridical persons may import un l im i ted amounts of foreign currencies with the approval of the NBRM. Effective March 12, 2003, (1) for residents, imports exceeding €10,000 require prior NBRM approval in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Money-Laundering; (2) for nonresidents, imports exceeding the equivalent of €2,000 or the amount declared upon arrival in the country requ ire documentation. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Effective October 15, 2002, resident natural persons, upon proof of identity, may open and operate foreign exchange accounts without restriction, and resident juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts only for their receipts from nonresidents without limita- tions on ma tur i ty (previously, with a maturity of 30 days) and use them to make payments to nonresidents. The following residents are allowed to maintain accounts abroad: banks; government repre- sentatives; natural persons with a permanent residence in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad with a validity of more than six months du r ing the period of their stay abroad; natural persons with a permanent residence in a foreign country and a valid visa or work permit issued in the former Yugo- slav Repub l ic of Macedonia; and jur id ical persons performing services in the international transportation of goods or passengers, investment companies, insurance companies, or sci- en t i f ic ins t i tu t ions. NBRM approval is required for residents other than banks, government representatives, and natural persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 573 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Only resident natural persons are permitted to maintain these accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts upon proof of identity. Effective Octo- ber 15, 2002, nonresident diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions may operate these accounts, subject to certain restrictions on deposits. Other nonresidents may operate accounts without restrictions, except for cash withdrawals, which are limited to the equivalent of €10,000 a month. Nonresidents, other than diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions, must obtain a certificate from the customs authorities for cash deposits above the equivalent of €10,000. Nonresidents may open denar accounts upon proof of identity. Effective October 15, 2002, nonresident diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions may operate accounts without restriction. Other nonresidents may operate accounts without restriction, except for the cash withdrawals, which are limited to €10,000 a month in denar equivalent. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other no tariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Effective October 15, 2002, commercial banks require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction only. Previously, a contract, invoice, or customs declaration was required, and only some goods could be paid for in advance. Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing require- ments for security or public health reasons. Duty rates on raw materials range from zero to 2%; and those on machinery and equipment range from 1% to 8%. Duty rates on consumer goods range from 15% to 35%; and those on agricultural goods from 20% to 60%. The number of bands is 16, and the average rate is about 14.46%. Effective January 1, 2002, the 1% documentation fee was abolished and replaced with a fixed fee of the equivalent of €19 for each tariff group specified in the im- port declaration. Imports of goods and services for which import duties are not levied are exempt from this customs fee. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Effective October 15, 2002, these requirements were lifted. Prior to this date, exporters had to repatriate export proceeds within 90 days. Effective October 15, 2002, these requirements were lifted. Prior to this date, exporters could retain exports proceeds in their accounts, sell the proceeds in the foreign exchange market, or use the proceeds for payments abroad within 30 days, after which they had to sell the proceeds to commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Generally, exports do not require a license. However, in some exceptional cases, the export of certain goods requires a license from the appropriate authorities. Yes. Yes. Prior to its abolition on January 1, 2003, a fee of 0.1 % was levied on exports for promo- tional purposes by the Ministry of Economy (MOE). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Documentary evidence is required for all payments, and personal payments are subject to a ceiling of the equivalent of €2,500. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Prior to October 15,2002, when this requirement was lifted, the regulations governing merchandise exports applied. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Effective October 15,2002, nonresidents may open custody accounts for purchase of secu- rities, except for purchases (1) from initial public offerings; (2) of shares representing more than 10% of the voting rights or more than 10% of the equity of a shareholder company; or (3) of private placements. Commercial banks must pay a premium, established quarterly by the NBRM, for the right to buy foreign exchange to cover the security position of this cus- tody account, except for the balances of the portfolio investments that have been committed for one year. Previously, nonresidents were allowed to acquire shares in domestic compa- nies on the same terms as residents, but needed to register the investment with the MOE. Effective October 15, 2002, nonresidents may issue or sell locally shares or other securities of a participating nature with permission from the Security Commission (SC). Previously, nonresidents were allowed to issue securities based on reciprocity and with the prior ap- proval of the SC. Effective October 15,2002, authorized banks may freely purchase abroad only (1) securi- ties issued by an OECD member state or international financial institution and (2) securities with minimum Baa rating (according to MoodyJs) or BBB (according to Standard and Poor's). All residents may purchase abroad securities traded on the stock exchanges with which the stock exchange of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has an agree- ment. Previously, only foreign direct investments were permitted by the MOE. Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective October 15, 2002, residents must obtain permission from the SC to issue securi- ties abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 575 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of bonds in private placements are treated as credit transactions; for other catego- ries the regulations for shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are permitted for debt securities with maturities of up to three years. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. In the case of the sales or issue abroad by nonresidents, SC permission is not required. Controls on credit operations Effective October 15,2002, all controls on credit operations were eliminated, but prior registration with the NBRM is required. Commercial credits Commercial credits exceeding 180 days (prior to October 15,2002,90 days) must be regis- tered with the NBRM. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Prior to October 15,2002, only commercial banks could effect these transactions, and NBRM registration was required. Effective October 15,2002, residents must obtain prior approval of the MOE for these transactions, and investments must be registered with the MOE within 30 days. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or establish joint ventures, except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not produced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20%. All foreign in- vestment registered with the MOE is protected from nationalization. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Residents in general are not allowed to acquire real estate abroad, except under the condi- tion of reciprocity pursuant to the provisions of an international agreement. Acquisitions of real estate must be registered with the MOE within 60 days. Nonresidents may acquire real estate locally pursuant to the provisions of a special law or an international agreement under the condition of reciprocity. Acquisitions of real estate must be registered with the MOE within 60 days. Nonresidents may sell real estate to residents, subject to registration of the real estate with the MOE. Effective October 15,2002, controls on these transactions were fully liberalized. Prior to October 15,2002, natural persons could not engage in credit relations. Prior to October 15,2002, transfers related to inheritances required a reciprocity agreement. Effective October 15,2002, documentary evidence is required for payments exceeding the equivalent of €2,500. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior to October 15,2002, the transfer of proceeds from gambling was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued Securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Credit exposure to one entity may not exceed 25% of a bank's regulatory capital. Effec t ive October 15, 2002, commercial banks may lend in foreign exchange to residents for current payments abroad, but credit exposure to one person may not exceed 25% of the bank's regulatory capital. Previously, these transactions were not allowed. Credit exposure by an issuer may not exceed 25% of the bank's regulatory capital. Deposits in denars are subject to reserve requirements; foreign exchange deposits are not. Prior to October 15, 2002, when this was l if ted, the liquid asset requirements on foreign currency deposits by resident individuals were 30% on sight deposits, 30% on one-month deposits, 20% on three-month deposits, and 10% on six-month deposits. The reserve requirement on a nonresident's account is 10% for demand deposits and 5% for time deposits. Prior to October 15, 2002, foreign currency deposit accounts held by nonresidents were subject to a 100% liquid reserve requirement. Banks must obtain prior approval from the NBRM and report these investments to the MOE within 30 days. Prior to December 31, 2002, when controls were lifted, NBRM approval was required for an investor to hold more than 10% of a bank's share capital and an investor could not hold more than one-third of a bank's share capital. The l im it on open foreign exchange position is 20% of a bank's regulatory capital for each foreign currency (for euros, 30%) and the l im it on aggregate open foreign exchange posi- tion is 50% of a bank's regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The maximum l im it for a resident or nonresident issuer is 20% of the bank's regulatory capital, and the regulations governing capital market securities apply. These transactions are not permitted. The maximum limit is 25% of a bank's regulatory capital. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement January 1. The peg to the deutsche mark was replaced with a peg to the euro. October 14. All residents were allowed to conduct forward foreign exchange operations. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 577 Arrangements for payments and receipts October 15. The exportation and importation of domestic currency notes in any denomina- tion were allowed up to MDen 20,000 (prior to this date, limited to MDen 5,000). Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments October 15. The limit on imports and exports of foreign currency notes by resident and nonresident natural persons without documentary proof was increased to the equivalent of €10,000 (previously, €2,500) October 15. A. new foreign exchange law came into effect extensively liberalizing capital account transactions. October 15. Under the new Foreign Exchange Law, residents were permitted to keep ac- counts abroad under the terms determined by the NBRM. October 15. Nonresidents were permitted to operate freely foreign exchange and denar accounts, except for cash withdrawals, which are limited to €10,000 or its equivalent in denar a month, and NBRM would no longer determine the conditions under which these accounts can be held. Nonresident accounts would be subject to the Law on Money Laundering. January 1. The 1% documentation fee was abolished and replaced with a fixed fee of the equivalent of €19 for each tariff group specified in the import declaration. October 15. Commercial banks require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction only. Previously, a contract, invoice, or customs declaration was required, and only some goods could be paid for in advance. Exports and export proceeds October 15. The repatriation and surrender requirement for export proceeds was eliminated. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers October 15. The repatriation requirement for proceeds from invisible transactions and cur- rent payments was eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments October 15. Residents were required to obtain permission from the SC to issue securities abroad. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 15. Controls on transactions of capital and money market instruments by nonresi- dents in Macedonia and by authorized banks abroad were liberalized extensively. October 15. All controls on credit operations were eliminated, but prior registration with the NBRM is required. Commercial credits with maturities exceeding 180 days (previously, 90 days) must also be registered with the NBRM. October 15. Residents must obtain prior approval of the MOE and are obligated to register the investment within 30 days with the MOE. October 15. Controls on these transactions were fu l ly liberalized. Only documentary evi- dence is required for payments exceeding the equivalent of €2,500. October 15. Commercial banks were permitted to lend in foreign exchange to residents for current payments abroad, but credit exposure to one person may not exceed 25% of the bank's regulatory capital. October 15. The l iqu id asset requirements on foreign currency deposits by nonresidents were lifted. October 15. The liquid asset requirements on foreign currency deposits by residents were lifted. December 31. The control that one investor could not hold more than one-third of a bank's share capital and that NBRM approval would be required for an investor to hold more than 10% of a bank's share capital was abolished. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 12. The l im it on imports of foreign currency notes was revised as follows: (1) for residents, imports exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 require NBRM approval; (2) for Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA nonresidents, imports exceeding the equivalent of €2,000 or the amount declared upon arrival in the country require documentation. March 12. The limits on exports of foreign currency notes were revised as follows: (1) for resident natural persons, up to the equivalent of €2,000 without a document, and up to the equivalent of €4,000 with a document, provided that the amount has been withdrawn from an account or purchased for travel expenses; (2) for nonresidents, up to the equivalent of €2,000 without a document and up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country with a document from custom authorities. Exports and export proceeds January L A fee of 1% on exports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 18,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined freely in the official interbank market. The euro is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris ex- change market. No. No. There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Importers may buy foreign currency 120 days prior to settlement from their bank. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Yes. Inoperative There is an arrangement with Mauritius that has been inoperative for some time. Regional arrangements Madagascar is a member of the Regional Integration Facilitation Forum. Barter agreements and open accounts Regulations prohibit barter trade. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the Gen- eral Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar. Approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, except for capital operations, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through such intermediaries. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 MADAGASCAR Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold w i th in the country from holders of valid gold mining titles, from authorized holders of Gold Board gold washing rights, and from agencies for approved collectors. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numis- matic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold mining title or a gold washing permit or rights thereto are free to sell any gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, or their agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. The Gold Board and agencies authorized by the Ministry of M in ing may export gold in all its forms. Jewelers, goldsmiths, and private sector professionals who use gold may export it only in worked form, with the approval of the Minister of Mining. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Res ident and nonresident travelers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount exceeds the equivalent of FMG 50,000. Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to FMG 25,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but a dec- laration is required if the amount is equal to FMG 50,000 or more. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents may freely open foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, as well as foreign bank- notes or traveler's and bank checks, may be deposited in these accounts w i thout documen- tation. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only w i th in the limits stipulated un- der the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. Au thor iza t ion of the MOF is required for opening foreign exchange accounts in foreign banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonres iden ts are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 5 81 Domestic currency accounts Transactions between residents and enterprises in the free trade zone are conducted either through the enterprises' special accounts in Malagasy francs or through their foreign ex- change accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements The requirement applies to all imports. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs There is a short list of imports subject to administrative control primarily for health and security reasons. The tariff structure has three rates (5%, 15%, and 25%; prior to November 7, 2002, a fourth rate-30%-also applied ). To ensure a more coherent tax structure, products have been allo- cated among these three rates. Some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%. A pretax of 3% to 5%, deductible from the corporate tax, is paid on all imports. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the shipment date. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes All exports, excluding free deliveries, require either a collect on delivery or settlement against delivery of documents. Effective February 13, 2002, this requirement applies only to exports exceeding FMG 2.5 million (previously, exceeding FMG 1 million). Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 MADAGASCAR Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of the due date, Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. There are no capital market regulations, since there is no capital market. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required for issue or sales of shares in Madagascar. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n.r. By residents to nonresidents Currently, these operations do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export prefinancing operations are permitted. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the MOF, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit insti- tutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign compa- nies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. Investments, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted within Madagascar without authorization or investment approval. The total or partial liquidation of these investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited, unless a waiver is granted by the MOF. Sale locally by nonresidents The transfer of proceeds of sales requires prior authorization by the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 583 Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls are implemented through bank supervision. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments November 7. The tariff rate of 30% was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds February 13. The threshold amount to which a domiciliation requirement applies was raised to FMG 2.5 million from FMG 1 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange market participants are free to quote their own rates, provided that the spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates does not exceed 2%. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated w i th the ir clients. Official intervention focuses on meeting the target on the net foreign reserves position and performing smoothing operations, and accounts for sea- sonal factors. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Malawi or in kwacha through nonresident accounts. Current transactions between a resident and a nonresident may be settled only in foreign exchange, apart from transactions effected through nonresident accounts, which may be settled in kwacha. Yes. Payments to and receipts from nonresidents in respect of capital transactions may be made through the bank ing system, but the foreign currency must be converted into kwacha. Transactions in cap i tal and money market instruments T ransac t ions in de r iva t ives and o ther in s t rum en ts Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents It is prohibited to quote, demand, or accept foreign currency for goods or services sold or procured in Malawi. Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangemen ts Administration of control Malawi is a member of the RIFF. Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RDM) under the author- ity of the MOF. In terna t ional security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 584 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 585 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only the monetary authorities may hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Only the monetary authorities may conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in consultation with the MOF; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Malawian and Mozambican monetary authorities are working toward the formalization of a repatriation agreement. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Up to MK 3,000 may be exported. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalents of $3,000, $4,000, and $5,000, applicable to tourist, medical, and business travel, respectively. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount that they imported, less any amount spent. Domestic currency Up to MK 3,000 may be imported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Residents receiving foreign exchange from exports of goods and services or any other bona fide economic activity may open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) provided that they satisfy the terms and conditions of the bank involved for operating such accounts. Balances in FCAs may be used to make foreign payments and transfers, provided exchange control regulations are satisfied. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to hold offshore accounts denominated in kwacha. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but authorized dealer banks (ADBs) are required to report them to the RBM. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, with authorized payments in kwacha from abroad, and with transfers from other nonresi- dent accounts. These accounts may also be debited to make payments to residents of Ma- lawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonresident accounts, and make payments to account holders temporarily res id ing in Malawi. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are freely remittable. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts require prior authorization, and authorization is normally given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. Interest earned on bal- ances may be transferred to the account holder's country of residence. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MALAWI Financing requirements for imports Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in kwa- cha to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. When im- ports arrive in the country and payment is due the importer must submit to an ADB applica- tion for foreign exchange. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant importation, customs, and preshipment inspection documents. Advance payment requirements Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Importers are encouraged to use other modes of payment (e.g., LCs). Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Advance import deposits are not required by law; however, commercial banks do require them as a banking practice and depending on the mode of payment (e.g., LCs). A clean-report-of-findings certificate is required. All imports into Malawi amounting to $2,000 (f.o.b.) or its equivalent and above are subject to preshipment inspection. Imports of clothing and uniforms designed for military or police use, radioactive sub- stances, mist nets for the capture of wild birds, wild animals, live fish, compound products suitable only for use as animal fodder, eggs of domestic or wild birds, live poultry (includ- ing day-old chicks), meat dieldrin, aidrin, and table salt require specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are usually issued within one week of application and are normally valid for six months. Most imports are subject to the OGL, including imports from Commonwealth countries and from WTO member countries. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs are ad valorem and range up to 35% of c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 15%. Customs tariffs on all items with MFN status range from zero to 30%. Tar- iffs on items from the COMES A region range from zero to 13%. Selected government im- ports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax ranging up to 20%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds ADBs are required to convert 40% of foreign exchange received from exports immediately upon receipt at the prevailing buying exchange rate, and to credit kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The remaining 60% may be credited to the exporter's FCA. There are no restrictions on the time period during which such balances may be held. This 40% con- version also applies to dollar proceeds from tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the conversion is 100% until the seller has fu l ly repaid the overdraft with the bankers. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a form. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Effective Ju ly 1, 2002, a 20% tax applies to exports of raw and unprocessed tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 587 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Commercial banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange, without reference to the exchange control authorities, for all current invisible payments. These payments are allowed, provided the investment is registered with and the foreign loan has been approved by the RDM. The limits are the equivalent of $3,000 a trip for tourist travel and $5,000 a trip for business travel. Foreign exchange in excess of these limits is granted upon proof of need. Subse- quent issues of foreign exchange to the same individual with respect to private or business travel is granted upon proof of need. ADBs may approve up to the equivalent of $ 1,000 for family maintenance and alimony payments. Limits are also applied to these payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits apply to payments for medical treatment. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval The limit is two-thirds of current net earnings. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Forty percent of total proceeds may be converted into local currency upon receipt, and the balance may be held in FCAs. Restrictions on use of funds Funds may be used only in accordance with exchange control regulations. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward transfers of non-debt creating capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 588 MALAWI Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. F i n a n c i al credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Yes. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Repatriation of investments is permitted when the original investment has been made with funds brought in to the country. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad L e n d i ng lo c a l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in fo re ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accoun ts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements D i f f e r en t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts he ld by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 589 Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. No. Exports and export proceeds July I. A 20% tax was imposed on exports of raw and unprocessed tobacco. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of April 30, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian ringgit. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The exchange rate of the ringgit is pegged to the dollar at RM 3.80 per US$1. The maxi- mum spread between the buying and selling rates is fixed at 2% for the euro, the Hong Kong dollar, the Japanese yen, the Singapore dollar, and the U.S. dollar and at 3% for all other currencies. n.a. n.a. Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transac- tions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports may be provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes, forward cover may be provided for up to 6 months from the export date. Effective April 1, 2003, residents are allowed to sell up to 12 months for- ward foreign currency receivables for ringgit to an authorized dealer for any purpose, pro- vided that the transaction is supported by a firm underlying commitment to receive such currency. Forward exchange contracts against the ringgit with nonresidents require the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange (COFE), with the following excep- tions: (1) authorized dealers may enter into short-term currency swap arrangements with nonresident custodian banks and stockbroking companies for payments of share purchases on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) that have maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm commitments; and (2) authorized dealers may enter into outright ringgit forward sale contracts with nonresidents that have maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm underlying commitments to purchase shares on the KLSE. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. There are 23 arrangements (on August 5, 2002, an arrangement with the Kyrgyz Republic went into effect). There are 15 arrangements. Malaysia is a member of the ASEAN. Yes. The COFE, who is also the governor of the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), administers exchange control. 590 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 591 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Malaysia imposes certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. On March 22, 2002, the Malaysian authorities notified the IMF that financial institutions have been instructed to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of individuals and economic entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports The limit on exports of domestic currency by resident and nonresident travelers is RM 1,000 a person. The export of domestic currency by other means, irrespective of the amount, requires prior approval. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of RM 10,000, and nonresi- dents may export up to the amount that they previously brought into Malaysia. Exports of larger amounts require prior approval. Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may import up to RM 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Effective April 1, 2003, exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia with overnight limits ranging between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million or any other amount that has been approved (previously, the limits were between US$1 million and US$ 10 million). Limits imposed on exporters are based on their average monthly export receipts over the previous 12 months. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or multicurrency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export receipts, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of the equivalent of US$500,000. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowings are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or multicurrency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia for retaining foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, with no limit on the overnight balances. Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts with authorized banks for payment of education and employment expenses, sub- ject to an aggregate overnight limit of US$100,000. Prior approval is required to retain amounts exceeding the permitted limit. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or multicurrency accounts with Labuan offshore banks to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of the. equivalent of US$500,000. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowing are al- lowed to open foreign currency accounts with an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks for crediting foreign currency receivables other than export proceeds with no limit on overnight balances. Resident individuals are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for payment of education and employment expenses with an overnight limit of up to US$100,000 with licensed offshore banks in Labuan, and up to US$50,000 with overseas banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MALAYSIA Approval required Prior approval is required to open foreign currency accounts exceeding the permitted limits and to open such accounts at unapproved banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval required All commercial banks and merchant banks are allowed to maintain these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident ringgit accounts in Malaysia are known as external accounts. Sources of funds in these accounts may include sales of foreign currency; ringgit assets in Malaysia; income from salaries, wages, rentals, commissions, interest, profits, and dividends; proceeds from approved ringgit loans extended by residents and/or extended in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment; proceeds from repayments of approved ringgit loans; de- posits of ringgit in cash of up to RM 10,000 a day; transfers of up to RM 5,000 a transac- tion from and to an account by way of ringgit checks; transfers of up to RM 5,000 a trans- action from an account for any purpose through ATM cards, Internet banking, or ringgit checks; and transfers of any amount from another external account held by the same entity. Funds in external accounts may be used for payments for purchases of foreign currency and ringgit assets in Malaysia; payments for administrative and statutory expenses incurred in Malaysia; payments for goods and services in Malaysia; granting of loans and advances to staff in Malaysia in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment; payments of nonfmancial guarantees (when a guarantee is required); repayments of permitted ringgit loans; and ringgit cash withdrawals. Prior approval is required for transfers of funds be- tween external accounts and for uses of funds other than for permitted purposes. There are no restrictions on the operation of the external accounts of nonresidents working in Malay- sia, embassies, consulates, high commissions, central banks, or international organizations in Malaysia. There is no restriction on the conversion of ringgit funds in external accounts into foreign currency for repatriation. Investors may bring funds into and repatriate funds out of the country. All debits from and credits to the accounts of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro residents require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Payments are allowed freely provided that they are in foreign currency. M in imum f inanc ing requirements There are m in imum financing requirements that vary, for rice, fish, and fishery products depending on the agreement between those involved. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection In accordance with a special agreement, sales of rice from Myanmar are subject to advance payments. Other documents required are the invoice, the bill of lading, a sanitary or phytosanitary certificate, and the certificate of origin. Preshipment inspections are made by independent surveyors for rice imports. Letters of credit Buyers must open irrevocable LCs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas MALAYSIA 593 The au thor i ty for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the MOF. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is administered da i ly by the M in is t ry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, the Department of Agri- culture (DOA), and the Department of Ve ter inary Services of Malaysia (DVSM), on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Import licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the Fisheries Development Au- thorities of Malaysia (LKIM). A service charge of US$0.05 a kilogram is imposed on im- ported fish and fishery products. The shipment of live fish (including between peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requ ires a permit issued by the LK IM. In accordance with the Convention on In terna t ional Trade in Endangered Species of W i ld Fauna and Flora, a permit is required from the Department of W i ld l i fe for the import of endangered species. Import permits for animals and animal products —including those from Sabah and Sarawak —are issued by the DVSM. Import approvals are subject to import risk analysis and accreditation of establishments/premises under the An imal Ordinance of 1953 and in accordance with the regulations of the Office of In terna t ional Epizootics and other standards. Permits for the importation of round cabbage and raw coffee must be obtained from the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA). Import quotas for round cabbage are issued every month, wh i le import quotas for raw coffee are issued every three months. The fo l low ing require import permits issued by the DOA under the P lant Qua ran t ine Act: p lan t ing material; organic fertilizer; processed mineral clay; processed sand; and p lan ts and plant parts —including seeds and other planting material, soils (i.e., clay, sand, processed and unprocessed soils), growth media, herbarium, dried flowers, organic fertilizer, and microorganisms. Imports of unprocessed food and plants from tropical America and Cen- tral A f r ica are prohibited under the same act. Imports of cereals and nu ts from countries known to harbor khapra beetles must be treated and accompanied by a phytosanitary cer- tificate. Imports of plant products intended for consumption or processing are subjected to inspection upon arrival. Approval from the DOA is required to import fresh pineapples; otherwise, a du ty of 300% is levied. Approval from the Ministry of Hea l th is requ ired to import 19 chemical substances. All radio communications apparatuses capable of telecommunication in f requency bands of less than 3,000 GHz requ ire a license f rom the Standard and Indus tr ial Research Ins t i tu te of Malaysia, except for receivers designed for use in broadcasting services and radio commu- nications apparatuses that have a valid license issued by the telecommunication authority of any country or an international automatic roaming card issued by a licensed operator. Import licenses for rice are issued by the DOA. Certain imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when necessary. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Import du ty exemptions are provided for machinery, equ ipmen t, raw materials, intermedi- ate manufactured goods, components for use by manufacturing companies, approved ser- vices projects, and mu l t imed ia companies. An t idump ing duties have been imposed on PVC floor covering, self-copy paper, and corrugated medium weight paper from specified com- panies to their related companies. Temporary antidumping duties are also imposed on im- ports of gypsum boards. Under the privatization agreement, the corporation BERNAS was granted the sole right to import rice in to Malaysia for 15 years, as of 1996. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no later than six months after the date of exporta- t ion. Export proceeds must be received in fore ign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 594 MALAYSIA Surrender requirements Effective April 1, 2003, exporters are allowed to retain their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks with an overnight limit of between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million, or any larger approved amount. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exports of rubber from peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes The export of live fish is subject to preshipment inspection and, if requested, a certificate of health, a certificate of sanitation, and a certificate of origin may be issued by the Depart- ment of Fisheries. Veterinary examination, laboratory testing, and animal quarantine procedures—as well as accreditation of establishments/premises for export of animals and animal products —are carried out by the DVSM in accordance with import requirements of importing countries. Export licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the LKIM. The shipment of live fish (including between peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requires a permit issued by the Department of Fisheries. In accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a permit from the Department of Wildlife is required for exports of endangered species. Export licenses or permits from the FAMA are required for exports of star fruit to Western Europe, West Asia, and Hong Kong SAR; for exports of garlic to the EU; and for exports of Eksotika papaya overseas. FAMA acts on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise De- partment to endorse exports of all types of vegetables, especially to Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exports of plants, seeds, or shoots for purposes of propagation require export permits is- sued by the DOA. Exports of endangered species of plants require a permit from the DO A. Export permits and veterinary health certification from the DVSM are required for exports of animals and animal products. Export licenses (issued by the Malaysian Pineapple Indus- try Board) are required for fresh pineapple and canned pineapple products. A service charge of RM 0.184 a kilogram is imposed on exports of canned pineapple. Export taxes on most commodities, except for crude palm oil and crude oil have been abol- ished. Export taxes on other items are negligible. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and Serbia and Montenegro may be made without restriction. Effective April 1, 2003, remittances to nonresidents of profits on all bona fide investments, which are permitted upon the completion of statistical forms, were increased to the equivalent of RM 50,000 from RM 10,000. Remittances of interest payments do not require prior approval as long as such payments are in accordance with the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule specified in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions In general, residents may obtain freely credit facilities in foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of RM 5 m i l l ion, and they may transfer funds to nonresidents up to the equivalent of Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents MALAYSIA 595 RM 10,000 in foreign currency for productive investment purposes without approval; for funds exceeding this amount, prior approval is required. Effective December 3, 2002, ringgit assets purchased by residents from nonresidents may be settled in ringgit or in foreign currency, other than the currencies of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. On the same date, nonresidents were permitted to transfer ringgit securi- ties to other nonresidents. Settlements for such transfers were permitted to be made in ring- git if settled in Malaysia, or in foreign currency if settled abroad. Additionally, remittances of funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 for investment in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the Employee Share Option/Purchase Scheme (ESOS) do not require approval. Issuance of ringgit securities by nonresidents requires approval, but proceeds from the sale of these securities may be repatriated at any time. Controls do not apply to transactions valued at less than the equivalent of RM 10,000; for those exceeding RM 10,000, prior approval is required. However, effective December 3, 2002, residents are permitted to remit funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 to invest in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the ESOS. Controls do not apply to the sale of securities abroad by residents, but approval must be obtained. Approval is granted if the proceeds associated with these issues are to be used to finance productive activities, particularly for projects that generate foreign exchange earn- ings or save on the fu ture outflow of foreign exchange through the production of import- substituting goods. When interest on bonds is paid to a nonresident investor, the issuer is required to deduct a withholding tax —currently 15% —within one month of paying or crediting the interest, whichever is earlier. Issuance by nonresidents requires approval. When unlisted ringgit debt securities are of- fered domestically, a dealer must be appointed to undertake all sales and purchases of the debt securities. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Primary offerings or issuance by residents requires approval. Sales of bonds or other debt securities abroad are allowed freely. However, proceeds from these sales must be repatriated. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There is no limit on the sale of Malaysian securities in the country by nonresidents, and there is no control on the repatriation abroad of proceeds from such sales, but approval from the Securities Commission (SC) is required. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. In addi- tion, residents are generally required to obtain approval from the SC to make available, to offer for subscription or purchase, to issue an invitation to subscribe to or purchase securi- ties of a pub l ic company abroad, or to list such securities abroad. However, approval is not required for residents to issue unit trust schemes abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 596 MALAYSIA Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Residents must obtain approval for the making of payments for derivatives and other in- struments not traded on a fu tu re exchange in Malaysia. There are, however, no controls on the trading of fu tu res and options by nonresidents on the Malaysian Derivatives Exchange (MDEX). The issuance of certain non-exchange traded derivatives by nonresidents requires approval. The purchase of foreign currency-denominated derivatives not traded in a future exchange in Malaysia by residents to nonresidents requires prior approval. A resident must obtain permission to make payments to a nonresident for any spot or for- ward contract or interest rate futures not transacted at a futures exchange in Malaysia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents must obtain permission to issue and to sell financial instruments abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The terms of export credits extended to nonresidents must not exceed six months from the date of export sh ipmen t. Residents may obtain trade credit terms extended by a supplier for all types of goods and services. However, credit terms extended by a nonresident supplier for capital goods for periods longer than 12 months are considered as foreign currency credit facilities. Approval is required for credits exceeding the equivalent of RM 5 million in aggregate. No controls apply to credits of less than RM 10,000 in foreign currency or ringgit granted by residents to nonresidents. Resident stockbroking companies may extend margin financing facilities to nonresident c l ien ts for the purchase of shares listed on the KLSE, provided that the companies comply w i th all relevant KLSE rules. Resident insurance companies may extend policy loans in ringgit to nonresident policy holders, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies. The amount of ringgit loans extended may not exceed the policy's attained cash surrender value, and may be made for the dura t ion of the policies. Resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may extend ringgit loans to nonresidents to finance the pur- chase or cons truc t ion of any immovable property in Malaysia (excluding financing for purchases of land only) up to a maximum of three property loans in aggregate. Effective December 3, 2002, nonresidents who had financed the purchase of properties in Malaysia w i th domestic r ingg it property loans were permitted to refinance such loans. The refinanc- ing is to be included as one of the three property loans in ringgit currently allowed to be extended by a resident to a nonresident. Banking institutions may extend ringgit loans to nonresidents (other than to a stockbroking company or correspondent bank) up to an aggre- gate amount of RM 200,000 for other purposes. Resident commercial banks may extend to nonresident stockbroking companies and custo- dian banks intraday ringgit credit facilities in aggregate not exceeding RM 200 million and overnight credit fac i l i t ies in aggregate not exceeding RM 10 million for the financing of fund ing gaps arising from unforeseen or inadvertent technical delays in relation to settle- ment of trades on the KLSE. The overnight limit extended to a transaction is limited to three wo rk ing days, af ter which the fac i l i ty must be repaid. Effective November 21, 2002, banking institutions may extend ringgit credit facilities to any non res ident ind iv idua l, or nonresident entity who is not incorporated/registered in Ma- laysia, up to an aggregate of RM 5 m i l l ion a nonresident to finance projects undertaken in Malaysia. E f fec t ive March 7, 2003, bank ing ins t i tu t ions as a group may extend ringgit overdraft fa- c i l i t ies not exceeding RM 500,000 in aggregate to a nonresident, provided the credit facili- ties are f u l ly covered at all times by fixed deposits placed by the nonresident with the bank- ing in s t i tu t ions ex tend ing the credit facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 597 Residents are permitted to obtain credits in foreign currency of up to the equivalent of RM 5 million in aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents; for amounts exceeding RM 5 million prior approval is required, but approval is generally granted if funds are to be used for productive purposes. Residents require prior approval to obtain any amount of loans in ringgit from nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Any payment to a nonresident related to guarantees must be made in foreign currency. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Residents are permitted to obtain financial guarantees, provided the aggregate amount of the credit facility, including the financial guarantee, does not exceed the equivalent of RM 5 m i l l ion. There are, however, no controls on the amount of financial guarantees ob- tained from offshore banks in Labuan. All payments related to the guarantees, other than those obtained from Labuan, must be made in foreign currency. Outward direct investment Investments abroad exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 in any form require approval. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls are imposed on equity shares in line with the national economic policy. The fol- lowing inward investments require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assis- tance arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following circumstances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the rele- vant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, a foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new subscrip- tion by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities increases to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian com- pany to more than RM 5 million on incorporation means that the holdings of foreign enti- ties constitute more than 15% of the voting power, or the joint holdings of several foreign entities constitute 30% or more of the voting power of the company concerned. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the per- centage of production exported, whether high-technology products are purchased, or whether priority products are produced for the domestic market. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is permitted. Companies with Multimedia Super Corridor status are allowed to have 100% foreign equity. The proceeds of investments by nonresidents may be repatriated freely. The regulations governing purchases of shares or other securities of a participating nature abroad by residents apply. Purchases of residential, shop lot, commercial, and office space by foreigners may be made without control, provided that the purchase price is more than RM 250,000. Financing for such acquisitions may be obtained from financial institutions outside of or within Malaysia ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 598 MALAYSIA and may be made by foreign individuals in their own capacity without incorporating a Ma- laysian entity. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The regulations governing financial credits apply. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only authorized dealers in foreign currency and approved merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in foreign currency from nonresidents. Other financial institutions are subject to prior approval if the aggregate amount exceeds the equivalent of RM 5 million. Maintenance of accounts abroad Only authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are permitted to maintain accounts abroad. Other credit institutions require approval to maintain these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange The regulations governing financial credits apply, Authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. A resident borrower, however, must obtain prior approval if total aggregate bor- rowing exceeds the equivalent of RM 5 million. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are allowed, provided that the issuance of the securities has been approved and the investment is subject to the net open position limits of authorized dealers and approved merchant banks. Purchases must be financed by offshore foreign currency borrowing. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Investment abroad by authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are subject to net open position limits. In banks by nonresidents Foreigners are generally limited to an aggregate participation of not more than 30% equity interest in a bank. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are subject to the net open position limit. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature also apply. Residents are allowed to make payments up to RM 10,000 in foreign currency or its equivalent to nonresidents for investments abroad. For amounts exceeding this limit, ap- proval is required. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurers are required to support their margin of solvency (which is defined to include li- abilities) with admitted assets, as specified by the BNM. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The rules allow a licensed insurer to hold for investment purposes in respect of its Malay- sian insurance fund up to a maximum of 5% of its margin of solvency in assets of a foreign jurisdiction with a sovereign rating that is not lower than the sovereign rating of Malaysia. However, investment in any one foreign jurisdiction is restricted to 2% of its margin of solvency. A licensed insurer is also allowed to hold assets of a foreign jurisdiction where it is carrying on business to enable it to meet its foreign liabilities in that jurisdiction. The guidelines on unit trust funds issued by the SC in 1997 allow for unit trust schemes to include investments in foreign securities traded in or under the rules of a foreign market, although this requires prior approval from the BNM, the SC, and other relevant authorities. Employee Provident Fund (EPF) investment in foreign securities in amounts exceeding RM 10,000 is subject to BNM approval. The EPF is required to invest a minimum of 50% of its annual investable funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total investment. Unit trust schemes—as prescribed in the guidelines on unit trust funds —are subject to cer- tain rules regarding diversification of assets, including limits on investments in unlisted securities, other collective investment schemes, and participation in futures contracts. In addition, there are provisions on investment limits—including rules on investments in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other controls imposed by securities laws Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Controls on capital transactions MALAYSIA 599 securities of single issuers and of groups of companies, as well as in classes of securities— to ensure that the schemes have adequate spread and concentration of investments. There are no controls on foreign firms trading in the corporate debt, equity, and derivative markets. Under FIC guidelines, however, the following require approval: (1) any proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malay- sian company or business; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests; and (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value, whether by Malaysians or foreign interests. Foreign companies with no substantial business operations in Malaysia are not normally granted listing on the KLSE. Changes During 2002 March 22. The Malaysian authorities notified the IMF that financial institutions had been instructed to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of individuals and economic entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. August 5. A bilateral payments arrangement with the Kyrgyz Republic came into effect. December 3. Remittances of funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 for investment in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the Employee Share Option/Purchase Scheme (ESOS) do not require approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments December 3. Ringgit assets purchased by residents from nonresidents were permitted to be settled in ringgit or in foreign currency, other than the currencies of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. Controls on credit operations Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds December 3. Nonresidents were permitted to transfer ringgit securities to other nonresi- dents. Settlements for such transfers were permitted to be made in ringgit if settled in Ma- laysia, or in foreign currency if settled abroad. December 3. Residents were permitted to remit funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 to invest in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the ESOS. November 21. Banking institutions were permitted to extend ringgit credit facilities to any nonresident individual, or nonresident entity who is not incorporated/registered in Malaysia (nonresident), up to an aggregate of RM 5 million a nonresident to finance projects under- taken in Malaysia. December 3. Nonresidents who had financed the purchase of properties in Malaysia with domestic ringgit property loans were permitted to refinance such loans. The refinancing is to be included as one of the three property loans in ringgit that currently may be extended by residents to a nonresident. Changes During 2003 April 1. Residents were allowed to sell up to 12 months forward foreign currency receiv- ables for ringgit to an authorized dealer for any purpose, provided that the transaction is supported by a firm underlying commitment to receive such currency. April 1. The overnight limit on foreign currency export proceeds that may be retained by resident exporters in foreign currency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia was raised to a range of between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million from over- night limits of between US$1 million and US$10 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 600 MALAYSIA Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April 1. The maximum amount of payment of profits to a nonresident on all bona fide in- vestments, which are permitted upon the completion of statistical forms, was increased to RM 50,000, or its equivalent in foreign currency, from RM 10,000. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations March 7. Banking institutions as a group were permitted to extend ringgit overdraft facili- ties not exceeding RM 500,000 in aggregate to a nonresident customer, provided that the credit facilities are fu l ly covered at all times by fixed deposits placed by the nonresident customer with the banking institutions extending the credit facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian rufiyaa. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The rufiyaa is pegged to the dollar at the rate of Rf 12.80 per $1. The Maldives Monetary Authority (MM A) buys and sells currency at a spread of Rf 0.10, within which commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers must also operate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign currency for domestic payments is prohibited, and conversion between domestic and foreign currencies may be effected only by licensed entities. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Yes. No. Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts 601 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 MALDIVES Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may be conducted only after registration with and obtaining licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industries (MTI). Open general licenses Licenses with quotas All goods may be imported under an OGL system. Licenses are issued on application. All imports of rice, wheat flour, and sugar are subject to a quota. Other nontariff measures Prohibitions are imposed on imports in accordance with UN sanctions. Import taxes and/or tariffs Duties are levied on all products other than rice, flour, and sugar. The tariff structure has 10 rates, ranging from zero for staple goods to 100% for cars and 200% for plastic bags, with an estimated average nominal duty rate of about 23%. Cigarettes are subject to a spe- cific rate of Rf 0.30 per cigarette or Rf 6 per package. The tariff rate on electronic equip- ment is 5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are issued by the MTI. The private sector may export all products. Effective April 8, 2002, exports of fresh and frozen tuna by the private sector are allowed (previ- ously, they were prohibited). Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Exports of aquarium fish are subject to a quota. A 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 603 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.r. With the exception of commercial banks, natural and juridical persons may not extend credit and charge interest without the approval of the MM A. Investments require prior approval from the government. Foreign investors are required to provide at least 75% of their equity shares in cash or goods financed from outside Maldives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions No. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is not allowed in Maldives. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Interest rate controls Interest rate control exists only with respect to local currency, for which the annual rate of interest chargeable on loans and advances may not exceed 20%. Provisions specific to institutional investors n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 604 MALDIVES Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Exports and export proceeds April 8. The private sector was allowed to export fresh and frozen tuna. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris for- eign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is no exchange tax, but foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp duty. In addition, banks charge a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover with the prior authorization of the MOF to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. For cer- tain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Mali is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC mem- bers and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. All transactions among residents must be conducted in domestic currency. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO are residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the MOF, is required to sell, import, export, or deal in precious and semiprecious metals. 605 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 606 MALI Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Effective December 3, 2002, domestic trade in gold and other precious materials or fossils is permitted only for persons of Malian nationality or licensed nationals of other countries with which Mali has a reciprocal agreement who hold professional identity cards (Decree No. 02-536/P-RM). There are no controls on holding gold for noncommercial purposes. Imports and exports of gold require authorization from the MOF. The following are ex- empt from this requirement: (1) gold imported or exported by the MOF or the BCEAO; (2) manufactured articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles; and (3) gold articles with a combined weight of up to 500 grams imported or exported by travelers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The export of BCEAO banknotes is free of restrictions, but the BCEAO does not repur- chase exported banknotes. Nonresidents may reexport foreign banknotes in amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 500,000, but documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase through a means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks is required. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may export an amount up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person in foreign currency. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Prior MOF authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes or by a cen- tral bank maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the authorization of both the MOF and the BCEAO. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 607 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements A domiciliation requirement exists for all imports exceeding CFAF 5 million. Preshipment inspection An inspection for quality and price is required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import licensing requirements, but imports are required to be registered and permits are issued automatically. Import taxes and/or tariffs The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a customs duty of up to 5% and a customs service fee of 5%. Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and are based on c.i.f. values. Petroleum is subject to a variable levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5% to 55%, which have been suspended since 1994. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export pro- ceeds, excluding proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All exports exceeding CFAF 5 million must be domiciled, except for transfers made through the intermediary of the post administration, exports without payments involved, and certain special exports. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Supporting documents are not required for payments for invisibles to other countries under CFAF 300,000. Trade- related payments above this amount are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized banks may transfer, on their own responsibility, profit payments based on sup- porting documentation. Returning resident travelers must surrender unspent foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Payment of costs for study abroad and medical expenses are allowed freely on the basis of supporting documents. The transfer of salaries is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreign national's country of nationality. Credit cards issued by specialized resident financial intermediaries and authorized banks may be used abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 608 MALI Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU member countries, must be surrendered within one month after the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions All investments outside the WAEMU by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of such investments must be financed w i th borrowing from abroad. Investment from WAEMU countries is permitted freely. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be effected freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue, marketing, and sale of any type of security of foreign governments, public enti- ties, foreign companies, or international institutions require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to transfer these securities abroad. If the purpose of these transactions is to place Malian resident ins t i tu t ions under foreign control, the foreign investors concerned are required to report in advance to the MOF. The same rule applies to disinvestments. Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be surrendered to an authorized domestic bank. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be made freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization from the MOF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell money market instruments abroad. Sales constituting disinvest- ment are subject to prior disclosure. The foreign currency proceeds of such sales or disin- vestment must be surrendered to a licensed banking intermediary. The issue abroad of money market instruments by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior MOF authorization is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent, are governed by the regulations gener- ally applicable to securities and investments. Residents are allowed to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and securities, subject to observance of all regulations gov- erning these transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 609 Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Residents may not purchase commodities or securities abroad for the purpose of delivering them locally within the context of a put option contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for delivery abroad in execution of the contract. Commercial credits Special controls apply for borrowing outside the BCEAO. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The granting of these credits is subject to the following provisions: (1) any claims gener- ated by the export of goods must be collected, and the corresponding amounts must be repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the due date of the payment stipulated in the commercial contract. In principle, the grace period should not exceed 120 days follow- ing the arrival of the goods at their destination; and (2) any claims generated by the provi- sion of services must also be collected and then surrendered on the exchange market within one month of the due date of the payment, for which no limit is set. There are no controls on the granting of these credits; their repayment is generally author- ized, subject to the licensed intermediary being presented with documentation attesting to the authenticity of the commercial transaction or to the provision of services. The granting of financial credits is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The trans- fer of funds abroad for this purpose requires prior MOF approval. There are no controls on these credits. However, if these transactions are carried out be- tween a direct investment enterprise established in Mali and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and, as a result, are subject to prior disclosure to the MOF for statistical purposes. The granting of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad requires an exchange permit ap- proved by the MOF. To residents from nonresidents There are no'controls on the granting of these facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All outward investments by residents require the prior authorization of the MOF. These investments may be financed up to 75% by external borrowing. MOF authorization is not needed for purchases of foreign securities issued or sold in WAEMU member states if the issue or sale by nonresidents has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investments between WAEMU member states are free, but they must be de- clared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Liquidation of a resident's foreign investments must be reported for information purposes to the MOF. Reinvestment of the proceeds of liquidation requires the ministry's prior au- thorization. If the reinvestment was not authorized, the proceeds of liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Foreign investments may be transferred freely from Mali and must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The proceeds of the sale or liquidation of foreign direct investment or the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs, upon presenta- tion of supporting documentation to an authorized bank. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 MALI To residents from nonresidents Loans contracted by residents with nonresidents for domestic use must be transacted through authorized intermediaries in all cases, unless specifically exempted by the MOF. The authorized intermediaries ensure the proper execution of the transaction. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Payments relating to inheritances and dowries are generally authorized. Payments in con- nection with gifts or donations, however, require the prior authorization of the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants acquiring resident status must submit supporting documents to the local bank for the payment of debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are allowed upon presentation of proof of emigration to the MOF. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Licensed intermediaries are free to borrow abroad. Other credit institutions are governed by general provisions applicable to other residents. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO is required for loans and financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending to residents in foreign exchange is not permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required, Investment regulations Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Insurance Market Conference. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 3. Domestic trade in gold and other precious materials or fossils is permitted only for persons of Malian nationality or nationals of other countries with which Mali has a reciprocal agreement who hold professional identity cards (Decree No. 02-536/P-RM). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese lira. Malta has 24 denominations of noncirculating gold coins and 51 of noncirculating silver coins that are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Prior to August 23, 2002, the basket consisted of the dollar (21.6%), the euro (56.8%), and the pound sterling (21.6%). On that date, the weights were revised as follows: the dollar (10%), the euro (70%), and the pound sterling (20%). Unless market conditions indicate otherwise, a variable spread of approximately 0.125% is applied to the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and credit and financial institutions. These transactions may be conducted in dol- lars, euros, or pounds sterling, normally in amounts of not less than Lm 150,000. The CBM also quotes rates for other currencies based on international market rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates that authorized dealers may quote in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CBM may provide forward cover directly to government departments and public sector agencies. The CBM may also engage in forward transactions with credit institutions that are permitted to provide forward cover to their resident customers. Forward rates are based on interest rate differentials between domestic and international money market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is a banking agreement with Libya operating through the respective central banks to clear payments in connection with commercial transactions between the two countries. Outstanding balances are settled in convertible currencies at the end of each calendar quarter. The CBM, as agent for the MOF, administers exchange controls. In turn, the CBM has delegated authority to approve most bona fide current and capital account transactions to authorized dealers (including credit institutions and foreign exchange bureaus). The MOF has delegated responsibility for the approval of inward foreign direct investment to the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA), which is the single regulator of finan- cial services in Malta and is also responsible for the registration of companies. 611 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 612 MALTA International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on payments and f inanc ial transfers to the UNITA movement in Angola, Iraq, certain ind iv idua ls associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and organizations and other entities identified as terrorists or as sponsors of terrorism are in force in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in unref ined gold and gold for industrial use may be undertaken only by licensed gold dealers in accordance with the Gold (Control) Regulations (1996). Residents are per- mitted to hold or acquire manufactured articles of gold, including coins. Controls on external trade Only licensed dealers may trade in unrefined gold or gold for industrial use. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On January 1, 2003, all controls on exports and imports of domestic and foreign currency were eliminated for all permitted transactions. However, all exports and imports of bank- notes (foreign or domestic) in excess of Lm 5,000 must be declared to customs. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export domestic currency up to the amount they br ing into the country or any other amount that is eligible for transfer overseas. There is no limit on the amount that residents may export. Prior to January 1, 2003, residents and nonresidents could export up to Lm 1,000 a person. Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount they brought into the country. Prior to January 1, 2003, resident travelers could take out any amount of foreign currency, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of Lm 15,000 had to be reported to the CBM; residents could export foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 in con- nection with the purchase and importation of goods into Malta. Prior to January 1, 2003, residents and nonresidents could import up to Lm 5,000 a person and imports exceeding Lm 5,000 had to be reported. Nonresidents entering Malta should declare to customs any imports of domestic currency in order to facilitate their reexport. Nonresident entering Malta should declare to customs any imports of foreign currency in order to fac i l i ta te the ir reexport. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Resident ind iv idua ls may hold up to Lm 100,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 50,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency, including for- eign securities, provided that these funds are held therein for a m in imum period of six months. Residents may also hold up to Lm 20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 15,000; prior to January 1, 2002, Lm 10,000) in demand deposit accounts. Credit balances in these accounts may be debited with payments in foreign currency related to current account transactions. Export companies may deposit export proceeds in these accounts for a maximum period of one year. Effective January 1, 2002, corporations that act as commission agent on behalf of foreign companies may receive and deposit with local banks foreign currency payments made by local companies. Res ident businesses in the re ta i l ing sector may ho ld up to Lm 20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 15,000; prior to January 1, 2002, Lm 10,000) in cash or foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Approval required Held abroad MALTA 613 accounts with local banks. These accounts may be debited with payments in foreign cur- rency related to current account transactions. Yes. Residents may open savings and time deposit accounts with nonresident banking institu- tions and may deposit a maximum amount of Lm 100,000 a year (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 50,000; prior to January 1, 2002, Lm 30,000), although investment may not be made in financial assets with maturities of less than six months. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Conversion is allowed freely for all current transactions and permitted capital transactions. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources or with proceeds from permitted activities carried out in Malta. These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources or with proceeds from permitted activities carried out in Malta. Balances in blocked accounts usually represent funds originating from the liquidation of investments in real estate in Malta. These balances are retained temporarily until the rele- vant legal and f inanc ial procedures have been completed. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports may be made freely, provided that supporting docu- ments —including the customs entry form (for imports with a minimum value of Lm 20,000) and, in some cases, an import license —are submitted to an authorized dealer. Domiciliation requirements Import payments must be effected through authorized dealers. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Where import licenses are required, they must be presented to an authorized dealer before payments may be effected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs administers certain import controls in accordance with the Importation (Control) Regulations. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Licenses are required only for imports of items that need clearance for health, safety, secu- rity, and environmental reasons, as well as for certain items, such as fresh and frozen fish, handmade lace, and gold and silver filigree. All products not on the negative list may be imported without a license. Imports originating from non-EU countries may be subject to import duties. Additionally, a number of imports are subject to protective levies. Imports of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, and certain petroleum products are subject to state monopoly. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within six months of shipment. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 MALTA Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized credit and financial institutions. However, exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized dealers for up to one year to make import payments connected with their export- ing business. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must submit a quarterly report for statistical purposes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of works of art and certain essential goods require a license in accordance with the Exportation (Control) Regulations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Personal payments Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles may be made freely, but supporting documents must be presented to authorized credit and financial institutions before payment is effected. Effective January 1, 2003, there are no limits on payments for travel; however, export of banknotes (foreign or domestic) of more than the equivalent of Lm 5,000 must be declared to the customs authorities before departure. Previously, exports exceeding Lm 15,000 had to be declared to an authorized dealer. Most payments must be supported by relevant documentation. The annual limit each resi- dent may transfer abroad to other family members is Lm 20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 10,000) a person a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be received within six months of payment and surrendered to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds Funds deposited in foreign currency accounts may not be used for capital transactions. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to purchase securities that are listed on the Malta Stock Ex- change (MSE). However, approval must be obtained from the MFSA to purchase or acquire unlisted securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These are permitted, but prior notification to the MFSA is required for prudential reasons. Purchase abroad by residents Credit institutions and insurance companies are permitted to purchase these instruments abroad, subject to prudential limits. Fund management companies are permitted to invest up to 15% of the funds they collect from their residential customers (prior to January 1, 2003, 10%; prior to January 1, 2002, 5%) in foreign currency-denominated instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 615 Individuals and nonfmancial companies may invest abroad up to Lm 100,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 50,000) a year; investments may not be made in financial assets with maturities of less than six months. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. In addi- tion, the approval of the CBM is required if the money market investment has an original maturity of less than three months. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and related instruments. Effective January 1, 2003, local banks may grant credit facilities in domestic currency to nonresidents carrying out economic activities locally. Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment, unless otherwise authorized. Effective January 1, 2003, residents may extend credit to nonresidents for periods exceed- ing six months. Previously, the minimum maturity for such loans was one year. To residents from nonresidents Residents are permitted to borrow from nonresidents as long as the original maturity period exceeds six months (prior to January 1, 2003, one year). Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effective January 1, 2002, these transactions are fully liberalized. Previously, these transac- tions were permitted if the underlying transaction could be made freely under the current exchange control regulations. There are no limits on the amount that resident individuals may transfer abroad for direct investment purposes. Approval for such investment, however, is subject to the condition that the resident acquire a controlling interest in the overseas company. Direct investment by nonresidents is usually permitted in all sectors except real estate, wholesale retail trade, and public utilities. Nonresident participation may not exceed 50% of equity in businesses involved in information technology services. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2002, investments in real estate abroad by residents may be made without restriction; however, related documentary evidence must be submitted to the CBM. All applications for real estate acquisition by nonresidents require MOF approval. Nonresi- dents may acquire one piece of immovable property in Malta for their own residence (sub- ject to MOF approval), on the conditions that the funds originate from overseas and that the cost of the property to be acquired exceeds Lm 30,000 in the case of a single residence and Lm 50,000 in the case of any other residence; additional pieces of immovable property may be acquired in specially designated areas of the country only. Nonresidents are not allowed to engage in real estate property transactions, except for sales of properties that were acquired with the approval of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 616 MALTA Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Loans extended by residents to nonresidents are subject to the condition that the lending is for maturities exceeding six months (prior to January 1, 2003, one year or longer). To residents from nonresidents Residents may borrow from nonresidents if the original maturity exceeds six months (prior to January 1, 2003, one year). G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The l im it is Lm 20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 10,000) for all gifts. There are no limits on endowments, inheritances, and legacies, although documentary evidence must be submitted to an authorized dealer. Credit and financial institutions are permitted to borrow from nonresident sources if the ma tur i ty period of the borrowings exceeds six months (prior to January 1, 2002, three years). Borrowings for periods of six months or less require CBM approval (prior to January 1, 2003, one year). Maintenance of accounts abroad Effective January 1, 2003, credit and financial institutions may hold accounts for both li- qu id i ty and investment purposes, subject to prudential regulations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Financial and investment services operators may maintain accounts with foreign banks abroad on behalf of their clients. These accounts are to be used strictly for the temporary deposit of funds received from clients, prior to the use of the funds for new instruments. Details of these accounts must be reported to the CBM immediately after they are opened. Credit and financial institutions may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency if the maturity period of the borrowings exceeds six months. Borrowings for periods of six months or less require CBM approval. Credit and financial institutions may also lend any amount to non- residents in local currency for local use only. Loan facilities may be provided for any pur- pose, inc lud ing the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that the or ig inal ma tur i ty of the lend ing exceeds six months (prior to January 1, 2003, one year). Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is permitted, subject to prudential regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange This is permitted, subject to prudential regulations governing foreign currency exposure, Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Open foreign exchange position limits are subject to prudential limits set by the MFSA. Provisions specific to institutional investors Overseas portfolio investments by insurance companies are fu l ly liberalized, but remain subject to foreign currency limits set by the MFSA. L im i ts (max.) on secur i t ies issued by nonres iden ts Investment management companies are permitted to invest, without limit, eligible funds originating from both resident and nonresident sources abroad. Co l lec t ive investment fund companies that collect funds in local currency from residents with the aim of investing in local currency-denominated securities on the local market may invest up to a maximum of 15% of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets (prior to January 1, 2003, 10%; prior to January 1, 2002, 5%). There are no limits, however, on the amounts that may be invested by resident shareholders' funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement August 23. The weights of the currencies in the basket to which the lira is pegged were modified to 10% (dollar), 70% (euro), and 20% (pound sterling) from 21.6%, 56.8%, and 21.6%, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 617 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Residents were allowed to export up to Lm 15,000 in foreign currency a trip (previously Lm 10,000). Resident accounts January 1. Residents were allowed to hold up to Lm 15,000 (previously Lm 10,000) in demand deposit accounts with authorized dealers, provided that the funds originated from abroad. January 1. Corporations that act as commission agents on behalf of foreign companies were allowed to receive and deposit with local banks foreign currency payments made by local companies. January 1. Resident businesses in the retailing sector were allowed to hold up to Lm 15,000 (previously Lm 10,000) in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign ex- change, subject to conditions. January 1. Resident ind iv idua ls were allowed to invest up to Lm 50,000 (previously Lm 30,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Residents were entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 15,000 a trip (previously Lm 10,000). Amounts exceeding Lm 15,000 require CBM notification. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The limit on funds collected from residential customers that fund management companies may invest in foreign currency-denominated instruments was increased to 10% from 5%. January 1. The limit on foreign portfolio investments denominated in foreign currencies was raised to Lm 50,000 from Lm 30,000 an adult resident a year. Controls on credit operations January I. The granting of guarantees by residents to nonresidents was fu l ly liberalized. Controls on real estate transactions January I. Investments in real estate abroad by residents were fu l ly liberalized. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January I. The m in imum maturity of loans received from abroad was reduced to six months from three years. Provisions specific to institutional investors January I. The amount of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets that collective investment fund companies were permitted to invest was increased to 10% from 5%. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 2003 January I. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency a resident is allowed to export per trip (previously, a l im it of Lm 15,000 applied). All controls on exports and im- ports of domestic and foreign currency were lifted. January I. Resident ind iv idua ls were allowed to hold up to Lm 100,000 (previously, Lm 50,000) a year in deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency, but such accounts abroad may not be in financial assets with a maturity of less than six months. January 1. Residents were allowed to hold up to Lm 20,000 (previously Lm 15,000) in demand deposit accounts with authorized dealers, provided that the funds originated from abroad. January 1. Resident businesses in the retailing sector were allowed to hold up to Lm 20,000 (previously Lm 15,000) in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign ex- change, subject to conditions. January I. The l im it on payments for travel were eliminated and replaced with a reporting (to the customs) requirement in the case of banknotes exceeding Lm 5,000 in value. Previ- ously, amounts exceeding Lm 15,000 had to be declared to an authorized dealer. January 1. The limits on personal payments was increased to Lm 20,000 a person a year from Lm 10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 MALTA Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. Fund management companies are permitted to invest up to 15% (previously, 10%) of the funds they collect from their residential customers in foreign currency- denominated instruments. January 1. The limit on foreign portfolio investments denominated in foreign currencies was raised to Lm 100,000 from Lm 50,000 an adult resident a year, and investments may not be made in financial assets with a maturity of less than six months. Controls on credit operations January 1. Local banks were permitted to grant credit facilities in domestic currency to nonresidents carrying out economic activities locally. January 1. The minimum maturity of loans extended to or by nonresidents was reduced to six months from one year. Controls on personal capital transactions January 1. The minimum maturity of loans extended to or by nonresidents was reduced to six months from one year. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Financial institutions and investment services operators were allowed to main- tain clients' accounts with foreign banks abroad. January 1. The limit on gifts was increased to Lm 20,000 from Lm 10,000. January L The minimum maturity of loans received from abroad for which CBM approval is required was reduced to six months from one year. January 1. Credit and financial institutions were permitted to borrow from or lend to non- residents if the maturity of the loans exceeds six months. Provisions specific to institutional investors January 1. The maximum amount of funds that collective investment fund companies may invest in foreign currency assets was increased to 15% from 10%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are legal tender handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory Banking Commissioner. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in dollars or in any other convertible currency. Regional arrangements The Marshall Islands participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 30% of deposits received from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 620 MARSHALL ISLANDS Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports are not subject to licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Negative list Imports of some products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Specific and ad valorem duties are levied on imports. Ad valorem duties range from 5% to 150%. Most items are subject to an 8% tariff rate, while higher rates are applied to motor vehicles (15%), gasoline (20%), and alcoholic drinks (25%). Specific duties are applied to motor vehicles whose value cannot be determined, cigarettes and other tobacco products (excluding cigars, which have a tariff rate of 150%), soft drinks, beer, wine, and spirits. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the government-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 621 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. n .a. n.a. Yes. Foreign investors are required to submit applications to the Registrar of Corporations and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners are prohibited from owning land, but investors may obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years with an option to renew on land needed for their business. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 19, 1999. Currency The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian ouguiya. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The daily off ic ial exchange rate is set to the rate determined in the Extended Exchange Market (EMM) session of the previous day. The Central Bank of Mauritania (CBM) decides the extent of its intervention in the EMM based on observed and foreseeable market pressures; the reserve accumulation target; and the actual rates observed in transactions recorded in the preceding days by banks and ex- change bureaus. Based on the central rate, the CBM uses a fixed margin of ±0.375% to obtain bid and offer rates, which are used in all CBM foreign exchange-ouguiya transac- tions with the treasury. All CBM foreign exchange transactions with banks and foreign exchange bureaus are carried out in the EMM sessions. Banks and exchange bureaus may freely determine the bid and offer rates and commissions they use in transactions with their customers and among themselves. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances through the Postal Administration by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Yes. An inoperative arrangement exists within the framework of the Arab Maghreb Union. Administration of control is vested in the CBM, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Exchange control authority to approve current international transactions is delegated to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The Societe generate de surveillance (SGS) provides the CBM with copies of import documentation. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Private Yes. 622 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 623 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency All imports and exports of gold, except manufactured articles containing small quantities of gold, require prior authorization from the CBM. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes and coins. Effective August 5, 2002, CBM permission is required for residents to export foreign cur- rency exceeding the equivalent of $3,000, and nonresidents must declare amounts in excess of this limit; in both cases, documentary evidence of the source of the funds must be pre- sented. If nonresidents wish to repurchase amounts exceeding the equivalent of $1,000 previously sold for ouguiyas, they must present a receipt of sale from a bank or an ex- change bureau. Nonresident holders of foreign accounts denominated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiyas and maintained in a licensed banking intermediary may export any amount of traveler's checks denominated in foreign currencies or foreign banknotes withdrawn from foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Effective August 5, 2002, foreign banknotes may be imported freely; amounts exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 must be declared. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents may open accounts denominated in convertible foreign currencies, and these accounts may be credited and debited freely. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may open freely accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency New convertible accounts in domestic currency may not be opened. Those that existed prior to 2000 may be operated in accordance with the provisions of Circular GR/005/2000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Licensed intermediary banks may operate freely nonresident convertible accounts and tran- sit accounts on behalf of nonresident individuals and juridical persons. Nonresident con- vertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers from abroad or from another foreign account; (2) proceeds from the encashment of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on an- other foreign account opened in a Mauritanian bank to the order of the account holder; (3) transfers issued by a licensed intermediary bank by order of a resident in payment of transactions authorized by the exchange control regulations; (4) undocumented transfers in ouguiyas from the holder's account up to the equivalent of $6,000 a year; and (5) proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange held in the account on the foreign exchange market (banknotes, however, whether foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered on the foreign exchange market, funds to be transferred abroad, and withdrawals of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign currency by the holder; (2) transfers in favor of another foreign account or a resident; and (3) checks issued by the holder of the account in favor of another nonresident or a resident, and withdrawals of banknotes issued by the CBM. Transit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 MAURITANIA Domestic currency accounts accounts may be opened free ly by resident consignees on their books in the names of ship- p ing companies. Nonresidents may open domestic currency accounts, and balances on these accounts are freely transferable. Existing convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited in the same manner as foreign exchange accounts. Conver t ib le into fo re ign currency Ex is t ing nonresident accounts in ouguiyas may be converted, but new convertible accounts may not be opened. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be inspected by the SGS before shipment. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Upon presentation of the advance import notification, the importer may purchase the for- eign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Imports of a few goods, such as arms and alcoholic beverages, are prohibited for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Four du ty rates apply: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, a statistical tax of 3% is levied. Goods that are imported by some public enterprises or with external financing are exempt f rom all import duties. The fourth phase of the tariff reform is in effect. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts E f fec t ive August 5, 2002, exporters o f f i sh are required to surrender their export proceeds to the central bank. The CBM immediately sells 70% of these proceeds on the EMM and deposits the remaining 30% in the exporter's foreign currency account. Financing requirements n . r. Documentation requirements Export certificates —which must specify the quantity, value, and destination of all goods — are processed by the customs va lua t ion office (CVO); the CBM receives a copy for infor- mation purposes. Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Some exports require an LC. Exports exceeding UM 20,000 must be domiciled. Exports of goods require only a certificate endorsed by the CVO. Yes. A tax is levied on exports o f f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for spe- cialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for shrimp and crayfish. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 625 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles may be effected freely. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Total or partial repayments of foreign capital invested in Mauritania, as well as capital gains therefrom, are permitted freely, in accordance with Circular GR/006/1999. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages There are restrictions on payments of fam i ly maintenance and alimony, but information is not available on other personal payments. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages may be transferred freely, usua l ly through foreign exchange accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in four months. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital transactions are subject to exchange control. Outward capital transfers require CBM approval and are controlled, but inward capital transfers are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of securities of private enterprises are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The fac i l i t ies for these transactions do not exist at present. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to CBM authorization. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities brokerage operations may be carried out only by residents who have received CBM approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase abroad of bonds by residents requires CBM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 MAURITANIA On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment All credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities by residents to nonresidents are controlled. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The investment code (Law No. 2002-03) governs direct investments and all associated incentives and benefits. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment There are no controls on the liquidation of direct investments, and Article 5(1 a) of Law 2002-03 guarantees their transfer. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 627 Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. The limits on commercial banks' net open foreign positions in foreign exchange are a maximum of 10% of net capital for each currency and a maximum of 20% of net capital for all currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds August 5. CBM permission was required for residents to export foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of $3,000 and nonresidents were required to declare amounts exceeding this limit. August 5. Imports of foreign currency by residents and nonresidents exceeding the equiva- lent of $3,000 were subject to declaration to the customs authorities. August 5. Exporters o f f i sh were required to surrender their export proceeds to the central bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Mau r i t ius is the Mauritian rupee. Gold co ins issued in Mau r i t ius are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Maur i t ian rupee is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to their clients. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in cap i tal and money market ins trumen ts Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with the Financial Intelligence and Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2002, cash payments in excess of MUR 350,000 or its equivalent are prohibited except in the case of specific transac t ions invo lv ing banks or financial institutions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mau r i t ius is a member of COMESA and RIFF. Yes. No. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Res tr ic t ions are imposed in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. 628 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 629 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and /or trade Res iden ts are permitted to ho ld gold for num i sm a t ic purposes or as personal jewe l ry and ornaments. Con tro ls on external trade A pe rm it is requ i red to import gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted There is no d i s t i n c t i on between accoun ts of res iden ts and non res iden ts in M au r i t iu s. Resi- dent na tu ral and j u r i d i c al persons may ho ld accoun ts in fore ign currencies w i th Category 1 and Category 2 banks (p r ior to Augu st 10, 2002, banks ho ld ing a Class A or Class B bank- ing license). Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Companies and ind iv idu a ls may ma in ta in accounts denom ina ted in foreign currencies. Category 1 and Category 2 companies ho ld ing a Category 1 global bus iness license may maintain accounts in foreign currency with Category 1 banks. Companies and ind iv idua ls may maintain accounts denominated in Maur i t ian rupees with Category 1 banks. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Impo rt l icenses used as exchange licenses For goods that are not con t ro l led for consumer protection purposes, an import permit issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Shipping is required for foreign exchange to be released. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non t a r i ff measures Most goods are imported under OGL. Imports of potatoes and salt are subject, when necessary, to quotas. Imports of ag r i cu l tu r a l, ho r t i cu l tu r a l, and livestock produc ts requ i re phytosanitary inspec- tion. Imports of sugarcane are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 MAURITIUS Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Tariff rates range up to 80%. Certain items are subject to excise duties ranging from 15% to 360%. Imports of petroleum products and certain types of rice and f lour and 50% of cement im- ports are under state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Yes. No. No. Export licenses With quotas A permit is required for exports of textile products to Canada and the United States. Mauritius abides by quotas on exports of textiles and clothing to the United States and Canada under bilateral export restraint agreements. The volume of sugar exports to the EU is restricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention; that to the United States is subject to quotas. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Capital Transactions Yes. There are no controls on the purchase by nonresidents of shares listed on the stock ex- change. However, under the Noncitizens (Property Restriction) Act the authorization of the prime minister and the minister of internal affairs is required for nonresidents to purchase shares not listed on the stock exchange. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 631 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Under the Nonc i t izens (Property Restriction) Act, prior permission of the prime minister and the m in is ter of internal affa irs is required for noncitizens to acquire property in Mauritius. Additionally, purchases must be financed by funds transferred from abroad through the banking system. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Domestic banks ho ld ing a Category 1 (previously, Class A) banking license and offshore banks ho ld ing a Category 2 (previously, Class B) banking license may lend to both resi- dents and nonresidents in foreign currencies. Investments in shares require Bank of Mauritius (BOM) approval. Nonresidents may invest in shares of Category 1 banks that are listed on the Stock Ex- change of Mauritius (SEM). Authorization from the prime minister and the minister of internal affairs is required in the case of investments in Category 1 banks not listed on the SEM and loca l ly incorporated Category 2 banks. Holdings in excess of 15% of a bank's capital by residents or nonresidents requ i re BOM approval. A daily overall foreign exchange exposure limit of 15% in relation to Tier I capital is appli- cable to Category 1 banks. Daily overall foreign exchange exposure limits of 15% and 75% of required net owned funds apply to foreign exchange dealers and moneychangers, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonc i t izens are not allowed to hold more than 15% of shares in listed sugar companies. Changes During 2002 Resident accounts August 10. The designation "banks holding a Class A banking license" was changed to "Category 1 banks" and the designation "banks holding a Class B banking license" was changed to "Category 2 banks." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The cu r rency of Mex ico is the Mex ican peso. Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Exchange Arrangement Classification I n d e p e n d e n t ly f l o a t i ng Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i l a t e r al paymen ts a r rangemen ts Operative Reg ional arrangemen ts C l e a r i ng ag reemen ts The exchange rate of the peso is de te rm ined f r e e ly in the foreign exchange market. On Ma rch 20, 2003, the Exchange Commission announced a rules-based mechan ism to reduce the rate of in t e rn a t ion al reserves a c c um u l a t i o n, whereby the Bank of Mex ico (BOM) sells do l la rs d i r e c t ly in the fo re ign exchange market accord ing to the fo l low ing ru les: (1) every qua r te r, the BOM announces the total amount of do l la rs it w i ll supply to the currency mar- ket in the f o l l ow i ng th ree -mon th period. The to tal amount of do l lars to be sold d u r i ng the quar ter w i ll equal 50% of the accumu la t ion of net in terna t ional reserves registered in the p rev ious quar ter; (2) based on the to tal amount of do l lars, the BOM auc t ions on a da i ly basis a f ixed amount of do l lars fo l low ing a preestablished schedule (the da i ly amount to be sold w i ll be de term ined acco rd ing to the numb er of wo rk ing days in the cu r rent quarter; the auc t ions began on May 2, 2003); (3) on ly credit in s t i tu t ions w i th f u ll authorization to oper- a te in Mex ico may p a r t i c ip a te in the t ran sac t ion s; (4) the mechan i sm w i ll be tempo ra r i ly suspended if sales are less than $125 m i l l i o n; and (5) the mechanism w i ll be reestablished when the level of net in t e rn a t ion al reserve a c c um u l a t i on is h igher than US$250 m i l l i on compared w i th the level recorded in the last qua r ter in wh ich a do l lar sale was announced, af ter ad ju s t ing for the do l l ar sales imp lemen ted in that quar ter. No. No. Commerc ial banks are a l lowed to enter in to forward t ransac t ions that invo lve currenc ies in ove r - the -coun ter marke ts and fo rmal marke ts recognized by the BOM (cu r ren t ly, the Chi- cago M e r c a n t i le Exchange, the Ch icago Board Op t ions Exchange, the M id -Ame r ica Com- mod i ty Exchange, the M ex i c an De r iva t ives Exchange, and the Commod i ty Exchange Inc .). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is a paymen ts a r rangement w i th the Cen t ral Bank of Ma lays ia. In accordance w i th the Rec ip rocal Cred i ts and Paymen ts Ag reemen ts entered in to by the BOM w i th the central banks of A rgen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Ch i le, Colombia, the Dominican R e p u b l i c, Ecuado r, Paraguay, Pe ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezue la, paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made th rough the BOM and the central bank of the coun t ry concerned w i t h in the f ramewo rk of the m u l t i l a t e r al c l e a r i ng system of the LAI A. A s im i l ar payments arrange- ment exists w i th the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and N i c a r agu a. M ex i co is also a member of the NAFTA. There are c l e a r i ng agreemen ts in accordance w i th the reg ional paymen ts agreements re- ferred to above. 632 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency MEXICO 633 No. No. No. No. The cus toms law requ i res that persons b r ing ing in to the coun try an amount of cash, checks, or a comb ina t ion of both exceed ing the equ iva lent of US$10,000 must declare it to the customs au tho r i t ie s. Foreign currency The regulations governing imports of domestic currency apply. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Commercial banks are permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits in checking accounts payable in Mex ico provided the holders of such accounts are (1) residents of the 20- kilometer-long strip along the northern border area of Mexico or living in Baja California or Baja Ca l iforn ia Sur, or (2) firms domiciled in Mexico. Commercial banks are also per- mitted to hold foreign exchange deposits from firms established in Mexico provided such deposits are payable abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks are on ly permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits in checking ac- counts payable in Mexico w i th respect to o f f ic ial representations of foreign governments and in terna t ional organizations, inc lud ing foreign ind iv idua ls employed in such entities and fo re ign correspondents. In such cases, they must be registered in Mex ico w i th the appropri- a te a u t h o r i t y. Domestic currency accounts Conv e r t ib le i n to fo r e ign cu r r en cy Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 634 MEXICO Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for 265 of the 11,875 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary im- ports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. New licenses are issued provided that the criteria set by the MOF are satisfied. On average, import licenses are valid for a period of one year, but for some sensitive products, they are valid only for six months. For some products, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Imports of new cars of a given manufacturer are limited to 143% of export levels of the same manufacturer. Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the MOE, but only vehicles for special uses that are d i f fe rent from those locally made are allowed. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of raw materials and intermediate products require agricultural certificates, inspec- tion, and lab analysis. Goods covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endan- gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora are prohibited. Other nontariff regulations, such as national security concerns, health department standards, ecological and environmental regulations, and restrictions on drugs, narcotic substances, nuclear energy, and toxic and hazardous materials, are required for about 1,600 of the 11,875 items of Mexico's general import tariff. About 470 tariff items are subject to qualitative examinations by customs. Import tariffs range from zero to 30%, with higher rates for a few products such as fructose (subject to a 210% tariff) and steel products, clothing, footwear, and leather goods (subject to a 35% tariff). Imports from members of LAIA are granted preferential duty treatment. Free-trade agreements exist with Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, the EFTA, the EU, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Israel, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Trade with Canada and the United States takes place under the NAFTA. Mexico has applied anti- dumping duties on the following products: current transformers and steel products from Brazil; textiles and articles of apparel, electric products, toys, pencils, padlocks, bicycles and bicycle tires, iron and steel valves, and chemical products from China; beef, sodium hydroxide, polyvinyl chloride, fructose, and polystyrene from the United States; seamless steel tubes from Japan; polyester from Korea; steel products from Canada, Ukraine, and Venezuela; chemical products from Denmark; and frozen beef from EU countries. Tariffs apply to imports destined for reexportation, except those under a free trade agreement. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to drugs, narcotic substances, endangered species, and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Export taxes are limited to endangered species' skins, turtle oil, and electricity, among others. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Other payments Under the insurance law, it is prohibited for foreign insurance companies to enter into the following types of contracts: (1) insurance of persons when the person is located in Mexico at the time the contract is closed; (2) insurance of hulls of ships or airships and of any class of vehicles against risks proper to the maritime and transport class of insurance when the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 635 ships, airships, or vehicles are registered in Mexico or are the property of residents of Mex- ico; (3) credit insurance when the insured is subject to Mexican laws; (4) insurance against civil l iab i l i ty derived f rom an event that may occur in Mexico; and (5) other classes of in- surance against risks that may occur on Mexican territory. Reinsurance may be contracted w i th foreign re insurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase of shares and other securities of a participating na ture may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Such laws specify activities where invest- ment is reserved to the government or Mexican investors. Notwithstanding these restric- tions, if certain requirements are met, the Foreign Investment Law allows foreign investors to purchase equ i ty securities traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (MSE). Thus, with the authorization of the MOE, investment trusts may be established by Mexican banks acting as trustees. These trusts issue ordinary participation certificates that may be acquired by foreign investors; the certificates grant only economic rights to their holders and do not confer voting rights in the companies whose stock is held by the trusts (such voting rights being exercisable only by the trustee). Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities in Mexican territory. Foreign securities pub l ic ly offered in the do- mestic market must be approved by the Na t ional Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). Purchase abroad by residents MOF authorization is required for banks and securities firms to purchase shares of foreign financial intermediaries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Domestic securities offered in foreign markets must be registered with the National Regis- try of Secur i t ies (NRS). Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Irrespective of the ho lde r 's na t iona l i ty, the board of directors of each mu tual fund must establish a m ax imum l im it on ind iv idual ho ld ings of its shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 MEXICO Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by non res iden ts Sale or issue l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Foreigners are restricted to inves t ing in p u b l i c ly traded options when investments in the u n d e r l y i ng shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a p a r t i c ip a t ing na tu re of such op t ions are reserved e x c l u s i v e ly for Mex ican res iden ts. Fore ign commerc ial e n t i t i es must be au tho r ized by the MOE before engag ing in hab i tual commercial ac t iv i t ies on Mex ican territory. The unde r ly ing assets of pub l ic ly traded equity op t ions mu st be registered w i th the NRS and the MSE whe re the op t ion is traded. Options on fo re ign stock exchange ind i c es need the approval on the respective index by the MSE where the option is traded. Furthermore, foreign derivatives pub l i c ly offered in the domes- t ic market mu st be approved by the CNBV. Purchase abroad by re s iden ts Con tro ls app ly to Mex ican f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns w i th respect to the type of transac t ions they can en ter in to and amoun ts related thereto. Sale or issue abroad by re s iden ts The same con t ro ls app ly as for purchases abroad by res iden ts. Controls on credit operations F i n a n c i al c red i ts By residents to nonresidents There are l im i ts on the amount that banks are a l lowed to lend to i n d i v i d u al borrowers and on the open fo re ign exchange pos i t ion of banks. To residents from nonresidents There are l im i ts on cred i ts denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency granted to Mex ican banks and on open foreign exchange positions. Guarantees, sureties, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inwa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent Con t r a c t ing w i th fo re ign b o n d i ng compan ies to i n s u re ac t ions of persons who must f u l f i ll o b l i g a t i o ns on M ex i c an te r r i to ry, except for regua ran tee ope ra t ions, is p roh ib i t ed. If ce r ta in c o n d i t i o ns are sa t is f ied, the owne r sh ip by fore ign investors of 100% of the cap i tal stock of a Mexican company is permitted. The law sets forth wh ich activities of the econ- omy are reserved to the government or to Mex ican inves to rs and l is ts the d i f f e r e nt ac t iv i t ies in w h i ch fo re ign inve s tment may not exceed 10%, 25%, and 49% of the total investment. Fore ign governmen ts or state enterprises are p roh ib i t ed to invest d i r e c t ly or ind i r e c t ly in in su rance and bond ing companies. En t i t ies that exercise governmental au thor i ty are prohib- i ted to invest d i rec t ly or ind i r e c t ly in comme rc ial banks, l im i ted-scope f in an c i al in s t i tu- t ion s, f i n a n c i al h o l d i ng compan ies, secu r i t ies spec ia l is ts, secur i t ies f irms, general deposit warehouses, f i n a n c i al leasing companies, savings and loan companies, factoring compa- n ie s, fo re ign ex ch ange f i rms, m u t u al f u n d s, compan ies manag ing m u t u al or pens ion fund s, compan ies d i s t r i b u t i ng stocks of m u t u al f u n d s, compan ies app ra i s ing stocks of m u t u al pen- sion fund s, central counterparties, stock exchanges, or credit bureaus. Inves tmen ts in the f o l l ow i ng sectors are reserved for the government: petroleum and other hyd roca rbon s; basic pe t rochem ica ls; e l e c t r i c i ty; nu c l e ar ene rgy gene ra t ion; rad ioac t ive m in e r a l s; te leg raph; rad io te leg raphy; pos tal serv ice; issuance of paper money; m in t ing of coins; and the control and supe rv is ion of ports, airports, and heliports. Inves tmen ts in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved exc lus ive ly for Mexican ind iv idua ls or M ex i c an corpora t ions w i th a fo re ign e x c l u s i on c lause: re ta il trade of gaso l ine and l iqu e f i ed p e t r o l e um gas; rad io and t e l ev i s ion broadcas t ing services o ther than cable te lev is ion; ground transport of passengers, tour ism, and loading (exc lud ing courier and packaged goods t ran spo rt services); c red it u n i o n s; deve lopment banks; and cer ta in p ro fess ional and t e c h n i c al services. N o tw i t h s t a n d i ng these res t r ic t ions, fo re ign inves to rs may invest in these ac t iv i t ies th rough the a cqu i s i t ion of o rd ina ry par t ic ipa t ion certificates issued by investment t r u s ts e s tab l i shed by M e x i c an banks ac t ing as t rus tee, w h i ch g rant o n ly economic r igh ts to t h e ir ho lde r s. Inv e s tm en ts ex c e ed ing 49% in the f o l l ow i ng sectors and compan ies requ i re p r ior au thor iza- t ion from the Na t ional Foreign Inves tment Commission: acqu is i t ion in a Mexican co rpo r a t ion if the to tal v a l ue of assets exceeds the equ iv a l ent of approx ima te ly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 637 US$75 m i l l i o n; port services for in t e r ior nav iga t ion; sh ipp ing companies dedicated on ly to the export of high-speed ships; adm in is tra t ion of air terminals; cellular telephones; con- struction of p ipe l ines for oil and other derivatives; oil and gas dr i l l ing; legal services; pri- vate educa t ion; secur i t ies ra t ing i n s t i t u t i o n s; in su rance agents; and b u i l d i n g, operation, and exp lo i ta t ion of railway lines, if they are for general l ines of communication, and the pub l ic service of ra i lway transpor ta t ion. Limits on m ax imum foreign investments are applied to the fo l low ing sectors: cooperative production en t i t ies (10%); air transportation (25%); cer- ta in f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions (49%); manu fac tu r ing of explosives and firearms (49%); newspa- pers for n a t ion al d i s t r ibu t ion (49%); acqu is i t ion of "T" shares that represent the va lue of land used for agr icu l ture, livestock, and forestry purposes (49%); f ish ing, other than aqua- c u l t u r e, in coastal and fresh waters or in the Exc lus ive Economic Zone (49%); interior nav iga t ion and coastal sa i l ing, except tour ist cruises and the exploitation of dredges and other mar ine devices for ports (49%); integral harbor administration (49%); port pilot ser- vices for i n t e r i or n av ig a t ion (49%); supp ly of fu e ls and lub r ican ts for ships, a ircraf t, and ra i lroad equ ipment (49%); us ing, u t i l iz ing, or exp lo i t ing a frequency band in national terri- tory, except for the free-use spectrum and the o f f ic ia l -use spectrum (49%); installing, oper- ating, or exp lo i t ing pub l ic telecommunications networks (49%); occupying geostationary orbital positions and satellite orbits assigned to the country or exp lo i t ing the corresponding f r equ en cy bands (49%); and exp lo i t ing signal transm iss ion and reception rights of fre- quency bands associated w i th foreign satellite systems that may cover or render services in the na t ional te r r i to ry (49%). Any shareho lder, regardless of na t iona l i ty, may acqu i re the control of series O shares of a commercial bank, securities firm, or f inanc ial ho ld ing company. Prior approval from the respective f i n a n c i al au tho r i ty is requ ired for a shareholder to own more than 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a bank ing ins t i tu t ion, securities firm, or f inanc ial ho ld ing company. E f fec t ive Janua ry 17, 2002, shareholders may acqu ire the control of shares of an insurance company or bond ing company, with prior approval of the MOF, regardless of nationality. When such acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of such in- surance company or bond ing company, MOF approval is issued only with pr ior authoriza- t ion of the Na t ional Insurance and Bonding Commission. Effective February 15, 2002, shareholders may acqu i re assets rep resen t ing the capital stock of a credit bu reau, regardless of na t iona l i ty. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents These controls apply to the direct acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate inside a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50-kilometer strip inland from the Mex ican coast. In add i t ion, fore ign non res ident investors may acqu ire real estate through Mex ican companies, according to whose bylaws, these nonresidents will consider themselves Mex ican, and r e f r a in f rom invok ing the pro tec t ion of th e ir government regard- ing the property acquired and the ir rights to the real estate w i th in the zone defined above. Such acqu is i t ions may take place (1) th rough the acquisition of shares of Mexican compa- n ies dedicated to n o n r e s i d e n t i al a c t i v i t i es w i th no t i f i c a t ion to the M in i s t ry of Foreign Af- fa irs (MFA) or (2) through a real estate trust for residential activities, with the approval of the MFA. Controls on personal cap ital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Banks that obtain an uncond i t ional warranty from foreign national entities may be exempt f rom the l im i ts on fo re ign cu r rency l i ab i l i t i es and inves tmen ts for foreign exchange transac- tions, provided that the long-term debt of the warrantor is rated at least AA- by Standard and Poor's or Aa3 by Moody's Inves tor Service. BOM approval is required for debt rated by other agencies. Borrowing abroad is permitted, subject to the l im i ts on the l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency and on open fo re ign exchange positions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 MEXICO Maintenance of accounts abroad Foreign exchange risk positions, both total and for each foreign currency, must not exceed the daily l im it of 15% of the bank 's base capital. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are max imum l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to ind iv idual borrowers, regardless of the ir na t iona l i ty, and on the net open foreign exchange position of banks. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Irrespective of the currency denomination, banks may only enter into transactions on their own account with respect to securities registered with the NRS through securities firms, except for securities issued by banks. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Banks must invest in l iqu id assets, as determined by the BOM and denominated in foreign currency, an amount calculated through the ma tur i ty structure of the ir l iab i l i t ies payable in foreign currency. Controls apply on the types of transactions that banks may enter into and amounts related thereto. Any shareholder, regardless of nationality, may acquire the control of O shares with prior MOF approval. If the acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a bank ing ins t i tu t ion, CNBV opinion is required prior to MOF approval. The limits on shareholders do not apply to foreign offshore bank ing ins t i tu t ions that were set up in accor- dance with an international trade treaty. Irrespective of the counterparty's residence, total liabilities of commercial banks denomi- nated in or referred to foreign currency (excluding cash and h igh ly l iqu id assets, as deter- mined by the BOM) must not exceed an amount equal to 183% of the capital stock of the respective bank (calculation of the base capital stock reflects the capitalization procedure set under the Basel Accord). Effective April 1, 2002, the conversion of the base capital into national currency took into account the exchange rate published by the BOM in the Official Gazette of the business day fo l low ing the date of the calculation of the base capital. Not- withstanding this requirement, effective April 1, 2002, the BOM allows short or long for- eign exchange risk positions, which, both jo in t ly and for each foreign currency at the end of each day, do not exceed 15% of the bank's base capital (base capital be ing calculated pur- suant to rules issued by the MOF). For the calculation of foreign exchange position, com- mercial banks must include the foreign currency operations of the ir agencies and a f f i l i- ates —in Mexico and abroad—except for securities firms, foreign exchange firms, bonding companies, insurance companies, managing companies of mutual funds, mutual funds, and pension funds management companies. Effective April 1, 2002, the value of precious met- als were eliminated from the calculation of the foreign exchange position. Commercial banks may be authorized by the BOM to determine the positions referred to above from a long position in dollars. On nonresident assets and liabilities The regulations governing resident assets and l iab i l i t ies apply. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Insurance companies may invest in equity of other insurance, reinsurance, or bonding corn- panics. However, they may on ly invest their reserve in instruments pursuant to rules issued by the MOF. These rules specify the types of instruments and amounts in which insurance companies may invest. Mutual funds must invest at least 96% of their total assets in specially designated "assets for investment" —which include securities registered with the NRS and others established in law, depending on the types of funds —and those authorized by the CNBV. Effective December 10, 2002, pension fund management companies may invest in govern- ment-issued instruments and in instruments registered with the NRS. In addition, pension ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 639 Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally fund management companies may invest up to 20% of their assets in securities issued by nonresidents as authorized by the National Commission for Retirement Savings. The regulations governing limits on securities issued by nonresidents apply, Variable-income mutual funds and debt instrument mutual funds must invest their portfo- lios in accordance with the provisions set forth by the CNBV. The investment guidelines determined by such authority establish the types of instruments and the minimum percent- age of total assets in which such mutual funds may invest. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Exchange arrangement Changes During 2002 January 17. Regardless of nationality, shareholders were allowed to acquire the control of shares of an insurance company or bonding company, with prior approval of the MOF. When such acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of such in- surance company or bonding company, MOF approval is issued only with prior National Insurance and Bonding Commission authorization. February 15. Regardless of nationality, shareholders may acquire assets representing the capital stock of a credit bureau. Direct or indirect investment by entities that exercise gov- ernmental authority is prohibited for such companies. April 1. The conversion of the base capital into national currency takes into account the exchange rate published by the BOM in the Official Gazette of the business day following the date of the calculation of the basic capital. April 1. The value of precious metals were eliminated from the calculation of the foreign exchange position. April 1. The BOM allowed short or long foreign exchange risk positions that, both jointly and for each foreign currency, may not exceed 15% of a bank's base capital at the end of each day. Further, for the calculation of foreign exchange position, commercial banks must include the foreign currency of their agencies and affiliates —in Mexico and abroad— except for securities firms, foreign exchange firms, bonding companies, insurance compa- nies, managing companies of mutual funds, mutual funds, and pension funds management companies. April 1. For purposes of calculating foreign exchange positions, commercial banks and other credit institutions should use base capital instead of net capital. Commercial banks may be authorized by the BOM to determine the foreign exchange position from a long position in dollars. December 10. Pension fund management companies may invest in government-issued in- struments and in instruments registered with the NRS. In addition, pension fund manage- ment companies may invest up to 20% of their assets in securities issued by nonresidents as authorized by the National Commission for Retirement Savings. Changes During 2003 March 20. The Exchange Commission announced a rules-based mechanism to reduce the rate of international reserves accumulation. May 2. The daily auctions of dollars—part of the mechanism to reduce the rate of interna- tional reserves accumulation —began to take place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: June 24, 1993. Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The au tho r i t ies do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are hand led by the two commerc ial banks that are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a s ta tu tory bank ing board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in in te rna t ional markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward t ransac t ions may be conducted th rough commercial banks w i thout restriction. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. M ic rones ia participates in PACER and PICTA. No. No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. do l lar is used as domestic currency, and no d is t inc t ion is made between accounts in U.S. do l la rs he ld domes t ica l ly and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. do l lar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency w i thout restriction. 640 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 641 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accoun ts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Impor ters mu st obtain a bus iness l icense. Imports of certain products are prohibited for env ironmen ta l, health, safety, or social reasons. Impo rt d u t i es are lev ied on an ad va lo rem or spec if ic basis as follows: 25% on cigarettes (50% on other tobacco products), carbonated nona lcoho l ic beverages, drink mixes and prepara t ions, coffee, tea, beer, malt beverages, w ines, pe r fumes and articles con ta in ing perfumes (such as sachets), cosmetics, toiletries ( inc lud ing cologne and other toilet waters), all skin and hair applications (such as lipstick, pomades, and powders), and any other p repa ra t ions not h a v i ng med ic inal properties; $10 per U.S. gallon on spirits and d is t i l led a lcoho l ic beverages; and $0.05 per U.S. gallon on gasoline and diesel fue l. Ad valorem du t ies are 3% on food s tu f fs (except for fresh c i t rus f r u i t, for wh ich the duty is 25%), 100% on laund ry bar soap, and 4% on all other products. The ad valorem duties are based on the c .i .f. va lue of the goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requ irements P resh ipment in spec t ion Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. The Depa r tment of Hea l th, Educa t ion, and Social A f f a i rs conduc ts presh ipment inspec t ions of foods tuffs. Expor ts are not subject to l icens ing requ iremen ts, taxes, or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. The pu rchase and export of copra and dried coconut meat y ie ld ing coconut oil are conducted so le ly by the Coconut Development Au tho r i ty. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are controls on all these transactions. Yes. No. n.r. Foreign investors must obtain an application from the federal government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business w i ll be located. Also, they must obtain a license from the federal government to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and submitted to the Foreign Investment Board of each of the states in which the business w i ll be located and operated. Priorities for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. No. Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with the laws p roh ib i t ing land ownership by foreigners. Foreign investors normally obtain long-term leases (usua l ly up to 55 years w i th an option to renew for another 44 years) for land needed for their business. Yes. n .r. The statutory lending l im it to any person is set at 20% of capital. Domestic banks are prohibited from investing in the stocks of any corporation, domestic or foreign. In banks by nonresidents Foreign investment in domestic banks may not exceed one-third of available shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 643 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of June 30, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: J u ne 30, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announ c ed path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The o f f i c i al exchange rate of the leu against the do l lar is determined daily as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in all market transactions. The Na t ional Bank of Moldova (NBM) quo tes exchange rates of the leu for other currencies on the basis of the leu -do l lar rate and the cross-rate re la t ion sh ips between the do l lar and the currencies concerned in the in te rna t ional market. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is used in accoun t ing and statistical ca lcu la t ions. Ins t i tu t ions e l ig ib le to deal in fore ign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are authorized to purchase from and sell to resident and nonresident individuals foreign banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks in any currency. These transactions may also be effected through credit cards. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set the ir own buy ing and se l l ing rates in the ir foreign exchange transactions. On the basis of add i t ional in fo rma t ion, the exchange regime of Moldova has been reclassified, effective June 30, 2002, to the category managed f loa t ing with no p reannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly f loa t ing. Foreign exchange purchased by ind iv idua ls against cash at authorized banks or at foreign exchange bureaus is subject to a tax of 0.1%. Receipts from these payments are used for domestic social services. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Wh i le th is market does exist, it is small and operations are ins ign if ican t. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions The leu is the o n ly legal tender w i t h in the territory of Moldova. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed on ly in cases s t ipu la ted by leg is la t ion. The regu la t ions governing in terna t ional current transactions in foreign currencies also apply to those effected w i th domestic currency. Acco rd ing to the Law on Foreign Investment, foreign investments must be undertaken in conve r t ib le currenc ies or in other foreign currencies that are purchased by authorized banks. A f ter the payment of taxes, duties, and dues, foreign investors and foreign inv e s tm ent compan ies may use any domestic cu r rency receipts f rom the fo l low ing: (1) cu r rent ac t iv i t ies; (2) re inves tmen t, i n c l u d i ng acqu i s i t ion of companies, th e ir shares, and o ther secu r i t ies; and (3) purchases of fore ign exchange in the local foreign exchange marke t. NBM r egu l a t ions on cap i tal t ransac t ions apply to capital transac t ions in foreign currency and in domestic currency. T ransac t ions in cap i tal and money ma rket in s t rum en ts Yes. 644 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transactions in der iva t ives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control MOLDOVA 645 Yes. Yes. Except for authorized banks, transfers are not allowed between foreign currency accounts of d i f fe rent residents. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed only in cases s t ipu la ted by leg i s la t ion. Moldova has conc luded agreements on settlements with the CIS countries providing for se t t lemen ts and paymen ts in accordance w i th in terna t ional bank ing practices. Several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion of investments and trade development that inc lude provisions on payments between the signatories. Moldova is a member of the Payments Un ion within the CIS; however, the arrangement is inoperative. The NBM has u l t ima te au tho r i ty in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for manag ing the coun t ry 's fore ign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and gran t ing licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. In accordance with the Law on Controls on the Repatriation of Funds, Goods, and Services, the NBM mon i tors export receipts and import payments. The Center for Combating Economic Crime and Corruption (prior to February 28, 2002, the MOF) is responsible for controls on repatriation. International security restrictions The Law on F igh t ing Against Terrorism stipulates that the funds and other financial assets of persons associated w i th terrorism are to be blocked. In accordance with IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On J u ly 19, 2002, the Mo ldovan au tho r i t ies no t if ied the IMF that banks and other financial i n s t i t u t i o ns had been ins t ruc ted to freeze all funds, f inanc ial assets, and other economic sources of ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A l icense f rom the Chamber of L icen s ing is requ i red to conduct in terna t ional trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Fore ign cu r rency may be impor ted and exported by res ident banks w i th a "B" or "C" type license as we ll as by nonresident banks that have loro corresponding accounts with resident banks, w i th wr i t ten NBM approval. Domestic currency may be imported and exported only by nonresident banks that have loro correspond ing accoun ts w i th res ident banks, and then only with written NBM approval. Impor ts and expor ts of bankno tes by res ident and non res ident banks must be declared to customs. Bankno tes, co ins, checks, and t rave le r 's checks may not be imported through the mail or in unaccompanied luggage. The l im it for bankno tes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 2,500 for both resident and nonresident i nd i v id u a l s; exports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. The l im it on exports of conver t ib le and nonconve r t ib le currencies (banknotes, coins, and t r av e l e r 's checks) for both res ident and non res ident ind iv idua ls is the equ iva lent of $50,000 upon presen ta t ion of a customs dec lara t ion or w i th the approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. W i thout these documents, the l im it for resident individuals is $5,000. Exports of fo re ign cu r renc ies must be declared to customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 646 MOLDOVA On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The limit for banknotes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonresidents; imports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. Imports of currency (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) must be declared to customs, but there are no quantitative limits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident individuals may open accounts in convertible and nonconvertible currencies. Resident legal entities and individuals may open an unlimited number of accounts in both convertible and nonconvertible currencies. All foreign currency earnings of resident legal entities must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks, and account holders may use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle all transactions. Domestic transactions may be settled only after the foreign currency has been converted into lei. All payments by legal entities must be effected through transfers. Foreign currency may be withdrawn from resident accounts only for business purposes. Resident individuals may open type "A" and "B" accounts in any foreign currency. Type A accounts may be credited with foreign currency that was received from abroad (documentary proof is required). Type B accounts may be credited with foreign currency purchased locally; no documentary proof of origin is required. There are no restrictions on the use of funds from type A accounts for current international transactions. MOF approval is required only for organizations financed from the government budget. Yes. NBM approval is required for all residents to hold these accounts abroad, except for banks holding a B or C license. Resident individuals are permitted to open accounts abroad without written NBM approval for the duration of their stay abroad. Resident legal entities, inc lud ing authorized banks, may open accounts in domestic currency with nonresident banks only after obtaining written NBM approval. Resident individuals are permitted to open accounts abroad for the duration of their temporary stay abroad without NBM approval. Funds from accounts in lei may be converted into foreign exchange and may be used for current international transactions and for capital transactions under specific conditions only. Foreign currency that was purchased by a resident must be transferred to a nonresident within 30 days; otherwise it must be sold in the domestic market. This regulation does not apply to foreign currency purchased by authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident individuals are permitted to open accounts in nonconvertible and convertible currencies. Nonresidents with foreign currency accounts at authorized banks in Moldova are permitted to transfer the balances from these accounts abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks without restriction, provided that these funds were imported or transferred into Moldova from abroad or obtained by other legal means. Foreign currency deposited into foreign currency accounts of nonresident individuals may be withdrawn in cash up to the balances of their accounts. Nonresident legal entities may withdraw foreign currency only from the accounts of nonresident representative offices and on ly for purposes related to business trips, remuneration of nonresidents, and current expenditures. Accounts in lei may be opened freely by nonresidents, except for those from countries with which the NBM has signed a bilateral agreement that requires permission to open such accounts. All payments by nonresident legal entities must be effected through bank transfers. Domestic currency (cash) may be withdrawn only from the accounts of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 647 nonresident representative offices and only for the purpose of business trips, remuneration, and for current maintenance expenditures of the representative offices. Nonres iden ts may open leu accounts w i th authorized domestic banks if the funds are proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the Moldovan foreign exchange market; from sales of goods and/or services by nonresidents; from the possession, use, or sale of nonresidents' property in Moldova; from work performed in Moldova by nonresident individuals; or from receipts in accordance with a court decision or by any other legal means. Convertible into foreign currency Balances on leu accounts of nonresidents may be converted into foreign currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Goods must be imported and services rendered no later than 90 days from the date of the advance payment. The value of all imported goods and rendered services must equal the amount paid. If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated to Moldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effected. However, the length of this period may vary, depending on the type of contract. On January 1, 2002, a system of preshipment inspection of goods came into effect. Under this system, importers were entitled to make import payments to any exporter, provided that the final invoice bearing the security label was presented to an authorized bank in Moldova together with the relevant supporting documents, in accordance with NBM regulations. On September 24, 2002, this system was abolished. To effect payments for imports, the following documents must be presented to an authorized bank: the contract executed with the nonresidents, the transaction passport, and other documents in accordance with the NBM regulations, as applicable. The following imports are subject to licensing for the purpose of consumer protection and to ensure compliance with domestic standards: ammunition, military equipment, and special compounds for the manufacture thereof; explosive substances; nuclear products and technology; medicine, equipment for the manufacture of medicine, and medical equipment; chemicals; cultures for developing microorganisms; and stupefying or psychotropic materials and compounds for their derivation or production. Imports of unprocessed ivory are prohibited. There are several ta r i ff bands for imports. A zero customs tariff is applied to cotton, fertilizers, pharmaceutical products, textbooks, and base metals and products thereof, as well as to other goods. Customs duties are not imposed on goods and objects produced in and imported from Romania and CIS countries that have ratified the Agreement on the Creation of a Free Trade Zone or with which Moldova has conducted bilateral interstate agreements on free trade. Imported goods and services are subject to a standard VAT of 20%; imports of gas and l iqu id gases are subject to a reduced VAT of 5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated to the exporter's accounts with an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 MOLDOVA Proceeds f rom exports of goods must be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issuance of the customs dec lara t ion. However, the length of th is period may vary, depend ing on the type of contract. F i n a n c i ng requ iremen ts No. Documen ta t ion requ irements Export l icenses Export taxes An export con t ract and a dec la ra t ion on the repa t r ia t ion of foreign exchange proceeds are requ i red for exports of goods aga inst payments in domestic and fore ign currencies. Export l icen ses app ly to a l im i t ed l i st of goods considered important for hea l th and security reasons. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers T rans fe rs by re s ident i n d i v i d u a ls i n v o l v i ng fo re ign currency in B accoun ts are subject to t he f o l l ow i ng r egu l a t ion s: ( 1) E f f e c t i ve J u ne 14, 2002, res ident i n d i v i d u a ls may f ree ly t rans fer abroad any foreign cu r rency up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $200 (p rev iou s ly, $100). Transfers of larger amoun ts —up to an invo i ce amoun t —may be effected upon presentation of documen ta t ion. (2) R e s id ent i n d i v i d u a ls may, w i th w r i t ten NBM approval, t rans fer abroad foreign currency pu rchased on the domes t ic fo re ign exchange market to pay for f am i ly ma in tenance expenses in the amount of up to $1,000 a quar ter. E f f e c t ive Feb rua ry 7, 2003, transfers by res ident i n d i v i d u a ls i n v o l v i ng foreign currency in A accoun ts are sub ject to the f o l l ow i ng r egu l a t ion s: A res ident i n d i v i d u al may f ree ly t ran s fer to a non r e s id ent legal en t i ty any foreign cu r rency up to the equ iva lent of $200. For transfers to a non res ident i n d i v i d u a l, the l im it is $1,000. Transfers exceeding these amounts requ i re presentation of documen ta t ion (such as an invo ice or proof of f am i ly relationship). Re s ident legal e n t i t i es may effect t rans fe rs for cu r rent in te rna t ional payments on the basis of do cum en ts c o n f i rm i ng the need to effect these payments. Services must be rendered by non r e s id en ts to re s ident legal en t i t i es no la ter than 90 days f rom the date of the advance payment for the services. A ll rendered services must be equal in va lue to the amount paid for them. To effect payment for services, the f o l l ow i ng documen ts must be presented to the au tho r ized bank: the contract executed w i th nonresidents, the transaction passport, and other documen ts as requ i red by leg is la t ion. N o n r e s i d e n ts may t ran s fer abroad or to res iden ts and non re s iden ts any amount in foreign or domestic currency, provided that the transfers or payments comp ly w i th leg is la t ion. T rade - re la ted p a ym e n ts Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Inv e s tm en t - r e l a t ed paymen ts A f t er payment of all taxes, du t ies, and dues, foreign investors may transfer abroad any f u n ds in fo re ign cu r rency ob ta ined dome s t ica l ly as a r e s u lt of t h e ir inves tment ac t iv i t ie s. P r iva te loans from non res iden ts must be registered w i th the NBM. Current payments related to these loans may be effected in accordance w i th the certificates of registration issued by the NBM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. P a ym e n ts for t r a v el R e s i d e nt i n d i v i d u al ho ld e rs of type A accoun ts and non r e s id ent i n d i v i d u al account ho lde rs may w i t h d r aw fo re ign cu r r en cy (cash or t rave le r 's checks) for travel purposes up to the ir account balances and may f r e e ly export the currency, provided that permission has been gran ted by the au tho r ized bank that effected the w i thd rawal operation. R e s i d ent i n d i v i d u al ho lde rs of type B accoun ts may w i thd raw fore ign currency (cash or t rave le r 's checks) for travel purposes up to th e ir account balance, but may export on ly up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $5,000. Expor ts of amoun ts exceeding th is l im it requ i re written NBM app rov a l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 649 Au tho r ized banks may p rov ide res ident legal en t i t ies and representative off ices of non re s iden ts w i th fo re ign currency, cash, and/or t rave le r 's checks for business travel expenses abroad up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 a person a month, along with the correspond ing perm iss ion to export fo re ign cu r rency. Amoun ts exceeding th is limit, up to a m a x im um of $50,000, r equ i re NBM au tho r iza t ion. Yes. Res iden ts may export up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 in foreign currency. Amoun ts in excess of t h is r equ i re NBM approval. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages A labor con tract and documen ts con f i rm ing the payment of taxes are required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad I n t e r n a t i o n al cred it cards may be issued to ind iv idu al and legal entities against all types of res ident and non re s ident accounts, subject to credit regulations. In terna t ional credit cards issued against leu or type B accounts of resident individuals may be used abroad up to certain l im i ts for cash withdrawal and payment at hotels, gas stations, shopping centers, etc., as allowed under NBM regulations. Resident legal en t i t ies may make payments th rough in terna t ional credit cards issued against their accounts only for business travel expenditures. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements W i th the excep t ion of res ident ind iv idu a ls who held accounts du r ing a temporary stay abroad, proceeds received by residents f rom inv is ib le transactions must be repatriated to Moldova un less a spec if ic exemp t ion has been granted by the NBM. If services were not rendered by non re s iden ts to resident legal entities, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated to Mo ldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effec ted. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Approval f rom the NBM is requ ired for the transfer of capital in monetary form to nonres iden ts. Loans and other monetary flows from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. Commerc ial banks may pu rchase (in th e ir po r t fo l ios) secur i t ies issued by governments of G roup of Seven c o u n t r i es w i t h o ut NBM approva l. Issuance of securities in foreign currency is not pe rm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 MOLDOVA On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases or acquisition of more than 5% of the total value of the securities of an issuer— and each subsequent purchase/acquisition of 5%—must be reported to both the issuer and the National Securities Commission (NSC). An offer to acquire at least 25% of the total number of shares of a company, or such quantity that would allow control over the company, must be registered with the State Institution for Antimonopoly Regulations and the NSC at least one month prior to the acquisition, and the value of the stocks must be published within 10 days after the acquisition. Any acquisition of more than 25% of the ordinary shares of a company must be effected through tenders, which must be registered with the NSC. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be sold in Moldova only in the form of Moldovan Depository Receipts (MDRs) issued by residents who are professional participants in the securities market with registered capital of at least MDL 500,000. Issuance of MDRs requires registration with the NSC subsequent to NBM approval for the exportation of capital from Moldova. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval (mainly for statistical purposes) is required for foreign investors to purchase state securities. A single investor's share (resident or nonresident) may not account for more than 50% of the issuance of a given government security purchased in an auction or on the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 6 51 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents The fo l low ing requ ire NBM au thor iza t ion: (1) loans and commercial credits for delivery of goods or services for up to 180 days (90 days in the case of exports of strategic goods); and (2) advance money transfers for up to 180 days. Loans and credits exceeding these l im i ts are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Prior to June 6, 2002, credits with a deferred payment of more than one year required NBM registration. E f fec t ive that date, NBM registration is required for commercial credits only. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required, except for government and overnight credits. Credits involving resident or nonres ident nonentrepreneurial ind iv idua ls are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required, except for f inanc ial credits received by the government or under government guarantees and overnight f inanc ial credits received by residents. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies NBM approval is required for these transactions, except for guarantees issued or received by the government. E f fec t ive June 6, 2003, issues of guarantees by resident banks to nonresident beneficiaries against resident current transactions also require NBM approval. Residents may not enter into guarantees against nonresident transactions that are not effected against another security or through a corresponding deposit with a bank in Moldova. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required, except for guarantees received by the government. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBM authorization is requ ired for investments intended to acquire a newly established enterprise or more than 10% of the shares of an entity or to set up branches for the purpose of acqu i r ing control of an enterprise. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments must be transferred abroad within six months of receipt. A f ter six months, special approval is required. Reinvestment of capital abroad requ ires NBM authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. To residents from nonresidents Yes. G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents E f fec t ive February 7, 2003, resident ind iv idua ls may transfer up to the equivalent of $1,000 f rom A accounts, subject to documentary evidence of the previous import of the funds (customs declaration) or with permission from an authorized bank; or up to $200 from B accounts or funds purchased in the local foreign exchange market. To residents from nonresidents Effective February 7, 2003, these transactions may be conducted freely. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions require NBM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 652 T ran s fer of assets MOLDOVA Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. T rans fer of g am b l i ng and p r ize ea rn ings NBM approval is r equ i r ed. Prov is ions spec i f ic to commerc ial banks and other cred it in s t i tu t ions Comm e r c i al b a n ks are pe rm i t ted to purchase ( in th e ir por tfo l ios) secur i t ies issued by gove rnmen ts of G roup of Seven coun t r ies w i t h o ut NBM approval. Bo r row ing abroad NBM r eg i s t r a t ion is r e q u i r e d, w i th the excep t ion of loans guaranteed by the government. M a i n t e n a n ce of accoun ts abroad There are no con t ro ls on the op en ing and m a i n t a i n i ng of foreign currency accounts abroad by banks ho ld ing types B and C bank ing licenses. Authorized banks may open accounts w i th r e s id ent b a n ks in Mo ldova o n ly w i th NBM approval. L e n d i ng to n o n r e s i d e n ts ( f i n a n c i al or comme rc ial cred i ts) Yes. Lend ing l o c a l ly in fo re ign exchange Pu rcha se of l o c a l ly issued s e cu r i t i es denom ina ted in fo re ign exchange D i f f e r e n t i al treatment of deposit a c coun ts in fo r e ign exchange D i f f e r e n t i al t rea tment of depos it accoun ts held by non re s iden ts Inv e s tm ent r e g u l a t i o ns Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fo re ign exchange p o s i t i on l im i ts E f fec t ive December 13, 2002, banks h o l d i ng type B or C licenses are allowed to lend in any fo re ign cu r r en cy for any legal purpose. P rev ious ly, they cou ld lend on ly au thor ized fo re ign cu r rency to each o ther, to importers for import payments, and to other residents to make non impo rt payments, provided that the loan was made with funds obtained from i n t e r n a t i o n al f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns spec ia l iz ing in t h is type of lend ing. S e cu r i t i es d enom in a t ed in fo re ign exchange are not issued in the coun try. B a n k i ng regu la t ions do not provide for separate accounts in foreign exchange; banks, however, p e r fo rm separate a c coun t ing for each currency. B a n k i ng r e g u l a t i o ns do not p rov ide for separate accounts for non res iden ts; banks, however, pe r fo rm separate accoun t ing for nonres iden ts. NBM app roval is r equ i r ed. W r i t ten NBM approval is requ i red to t rans fer any equ i ty in te rest in a bank that resu l ts in a 10%, 25%, 33%, or 50% share of the aggregate capital of the bank. The l i m it for bo th long and short exchange pos i t ions is 10% of the aggregate norma t ive cap i tal for each fo re ign cu r rency and 20% for long and short pos i t ions for all foreign currencies comb ined. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (m ax .) on s e c u r i t i es issued by non r e s id en ts L im i ts (max .) on inv e s tm ent p o r t f o l io h e ld abroad L im i ts (m i n .) on i n v e s tm e nt p o r t f o l io h e ld l o c a l ly Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange reg ime of Mo ldova was rec lass if ied to the category managed f l o a t i ng w i th no p r e announ c ed path for the exchange rate f rom the category ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i n g. Arrangemen ts for payments and receipts February 28. The r e s p o n s i b i l i ty for con t ro ls on repa t r ia t ion was sh i f t ed to the Center for Comba t ing Economic Crime and Corruption from the MOF. July 19. The Mo ldovan au thor i t ies no t if ied the IMF that banks and other financial i n s t i t u t i o ns had been in s t ru c t ed to freeze a ll fund s, f i n a n c i al assets, and o ther economic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and import payments MOLDOVA 653 sources of i n d i v i d u a l s, groups, and o rgan iza t ions associated w i th te r ro r ism, pu r su ant to the re levant UN Secu r i ty C o u n c il re so lu t ion s. January I. A system of p re sh ipment in sp e c t ion of goods was in t rodu c ed, e n t i t l i ng importers to make import payments to any exporter, subject to add i t ional documentary requ i remen t s. September 24. The system of preshipment inspection was abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers June 14. The max imum amount that a resident ind iv idu al was allowed to transfer abroad w i t h o ut do cum en t a ry r e q u i r em e n ts was increased to the e q u i v a l e nt of $200 f rom $100. Capital transact ions Controls on credit operations June 6. NBM registration was requ i red for commercial credits on ly. Provisions specific to commercial banks and o ther cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns December 13. Banks ho ld ing type B or C licenses were allowed to lend in any cu r rency for any legal purpose. P r e v i o u s l y, l e n d i ng was pe rm i t ted o n ly in au tho r ized cu r renc ie s. Changes During 2003 Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 7. Transfers of fo re ign cu r rency by a res ident i n d i v i d u al f rom A accoun ts to a non res ident legal en t i ty and to a non re s ident ind iv idu al were allowed up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $200 and $1,000, respectively. Transfer of amounts exceeding these l im i ts requ i res documen ta t ion. Capital transactions Con tro ls on cred it operations Con tro ls on personal cap i tal movemen ts June 6. Issues of guarantees by resident banks to nonres ident bene f ic ia r ies against resident cu r rent t ran sac t ions were made sub ject to NBM app rova l. February 7. Re s ident i n d i v i d u a ls were a l lowed to t ran s fer up to the equ iv a l ent of $1,000 f rom A accounts (subject to documen ta ry ev idence or permission f rom an authorized bank) or up to $200 from B accounts or f u n ds purchased in the local foreign exchange market. February 7. Transac t ions i n v o l v i ng g i f ts and inhe r i tances to residents f rom non re s iden ts were allowed freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Mongolian togrog. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Effective January 6, 2003, the off ic ial (reference) exchange rate of the togrog against the dollar is set daily by the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) as the daily average buying and selling rates established by transactions among participants in the interbank foreign exchange market. The BOM reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market using the dollar as the principal intervention currency. The official exchange rate is applied to pub l ic sector imports and service payments, including debt service, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other transactions, including sales of retained foreign exchange by pub l ic sector enterprises, take place through the interbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the dollar in international markets. No. No. Banks are granted a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license from the BOM for engaging in forward exchange transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOM participates in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts W i th in the territory of Mongolia, all settlements, advertisements, setting of prices, and tar iffs must be made in togrog. There are outstanding balances under the clearing arrangement with the Russian Federation. Under inoperative bilateral trade arrangements, there are also outstanding balances with the Islamic State of Afghan is tan, the People's Republic of China, and Serbia and Montenegro. Mongolia maintains a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Administration of control International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payments arrears Official Restrictions are imposed on certain transactions with Serbia and Montenegro. There are arrears owed to the Russian Federation. 654 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 655 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exporters of gold must register their exports with the BOM or a commercial bank. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The source of the foreign currency must be documented. Importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and the balances may be used for any purpose without restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Registration with the State Registry is required. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Imports of drugs, spirits, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. A special permit is required for imports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Other non tar iff measures Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 656 MONGOLIA Import taxes and/or tariffs E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, a un i fo rm import duty of 5% (of 7%, prior to January 1, 2002) app l ies. A un i fo rm VAT of 15% is levied on imports of most goods. Specific excise taxes are lev ied on impor ts of a lcoho l, cigarettes, tobacco and tobacco products, passenger cars, and petroleum products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas With quotas Export taxes A special permit is requ i red for exports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, rad ioac t ive ma te r ia ls, ferrous and non fe r rous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Yes. Export taxes app ly to the export of non fe r rous and scrap metals, raw cashmere, raw camel woo l, and lumber or other t imbe r. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Inves tmen t-re la ted payments I n f o rm a t i on is not a v a i l a b le on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of d irect inve s tmen t s. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers No. No. Yes. Yes. Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue loca l ly by non r e s id en ts The issue of cap i tal ma rket secu r i t ies is p roh ib i ted. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Registration w i th the Mongo l ian Stock Exchange is requ i red. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of money market ins t rumen ts is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 657 On co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of co l lec t ive inves tment secur i t ies is p roh ib i ted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non r e s id en ts The issue of d e r iv a t iv es and o ther in s t rum en ts is p r o h i b i t e d. Controls on credit operations Reg i s t ra t ion w i th the BOM and the MOF is r e q u i r ed for commerc ial and f i n a n c i al c red i ts. Controls on direct investment Inw a rd d i rect inv e s tm ent Inv e s tm ent by p r iv a te corpora t ions is encou raged, p a r t i c u l a r ly in pro jec ts i n v o l v i ng expo rt promotion, the use of advanced technology, and the exp lo i ta t ion of na tu ral resources. The Law on Fo re ign Inv e s tm ent gua ran tees that fo r e ign f i rms w i ll not be n a t ion a l i z ed and that fo re ign inves to rs w i ll have the r ight to dispose of the ir assets. The m a x im um rate of the p ro f it tax is 40%, and fo re ign inves to rs are exempt from the tax for 3 to 10 years, d ep end ing on the sector and export pe r fo rmance. In a d d i t i o n, the law s t ipu l a t es that e n t i t i es w i th foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import or export d i r e c t ly or in coopera t ion w i th fo re ign trade en terpr ises. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Reg is t ra t ion w i th the State Real Estate Reg is t ry is requ i red for these t ran sac t ion s. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Reg i s t ra t ion w i th the BOM and the MOF is r e q u i r e d. G i f t s, endowmen ts, i n h e r i t a n c e s, and legacies G i f t s, endowmen ts, inh e r i t an c e s, and legacies i n v o l v i ng a n t i q u es mu st be reg is tered w i th the app rop r ia te state a dm i n i s t r a t i ve a u t h o r i t y. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Reg i s t ra t ion w i th the BOM is requ i red. M a i n t e n a n ce of accoun ts abroad BOM pe rm iss ion is r e q u i r e d. L end ing to non r e s id en ts ( f i n a n c i al or comme rc ial c red i ts) Banks are requ i red to ob ta in a supp lemen ta ry fore ign exchange se t t lement l icense to engage in these t r an s a c t ion s. L end ing lo c a l ly in fo re ign exchange Yes. D i f f e r e n t i al t rea tment of depos it accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks There is a 50% cap on the share of the reserve r e q u i r em e nt t h at may be met by cash in v au l t, and on the symme t r ical t rea tment of domes t ic and fo r e ign cu r r en cy depos i ts in mee t ing reserve requ iremen ts. Banks are required to ob ta in a supplementary fore ign exchange settlement license to engage in these t ran sac t ion s. Open fo re ign exchange po s i t ion l im i ts The l im i ts are 15% of cap i tal base for the net po s i t ion in a s ing le cu r rency and 40% of cap i tal base for the total net pos i t ion in a ll cu r renc ies. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws S e c u r i t i es may be issued o n ly by gov e rnm ent i n s t i t u t i o ns upon the app roval of the Great H u r al or by compan ies reg is tered in M o n g o l i a. It is p r o h i b i t ed to l end s e cu r i t i e s. Any person ow n i ng 5% or more of the total shares of any company must report it to the Secur i t ies Committee of the Great Hu ral w i t h in f ive days a f ter a c q u i s i t i o n. Any person who i n t e n ds to own, d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t l y, 20% or more of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 MONGOLIA total shares of any company must make a tender in accordance w i th the Securities Law of Mongolia. Imports and import payments January I. The un i fo rm import du ty was reduced to 5% from 7%. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 6. The BOM began daily setting of the off ic ial (reference) exchange rate of the togrog against the dollar. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan dirham. Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemorative silver coins with a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined freely in the interbank foreign exchange market. Bank Al- Maghrib (BAM) —the central bank —intervenes continuously in the market during the day by setting the buying and selling rates applicable to its operations with banks based on a basket of currencies, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. This quotation system is also based on the observance of the cross exchange rates in the international market. For exchange operations with customers, banks may not exceed the rate limits set by the BAM. Banks charge a commission of 0.2% on their foreign exchange transactions. No. No. Banks may provide forward exchange contracts for commercial and financial operations for periods of up to 12 months. Official cover of forward operations The o f f ic ial forward foreign exchange cover facility has been suspended since the introduc- tion of the interbank foreign exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions between Morocco and foreign countries must be settled in foreign curren- cies that are quoted by the BAM or in convertible dirhams. Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There are regional payments arrangements between the BAM and the central banks of Al- geria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office (FEO), an agency under the MOF. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Foreign Trade. On March 22, 2002, the Moroccan authorities notified the IMF that prior FEO authorization is required to conduct financial transactions with listed individuals or entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Morocco maintains restrictions against certain countries pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions. 659 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 660 MOROCCO Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Res iden ts may pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num isma t ic or invest- ment purposes. Ten d i f f e r e nt types of fore ign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, w h i ch does no t, however, deal in gold bars. Impor ts of gold are subject to au tho r iza t ion from the Customs and Indirect Taxes Adm in i- s tra t ion. The MOF fixes a n n u a l ly a quo ta for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewe le rs and indu s t r ial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are also regulated. The expo r ta t ion of domes t ic bankno tes is p roh ib i ted. Foreign n a t i o n a ls v i s i t i ng Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange on pres- en ta t ion of rece ip ts i n d i c a t i ng the amount of the or ig inal conversion of foreign exchange in to d i rhams. Re s iden ts may also export fore ign banknotes under powers delegated to banks by the FEO or granted by special au tho r iza t ion. The impo r ta t ion of domes t ic b a n k n o t es is p roh ib i ted. Non r e s id ent t rave le rs may b r ing in f ree ly foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denom ina ted in fore ign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in fore ign bankno tes in any amoun t, as we ll as any other means of payment in foreign ex- change, but must surrender them for d irhams w i th in 30 days of their return to Morocco. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly N a t u r al and j u r i d i c al persons may open fore ign currency accounts in Moroccan banks. These accoun ts may be credited w i th transfers from abroad, any foreign currency- denom ina ted means of payment (e.g., banknotes or traveler's checks), or foreign currency that was w i thd r awn f rom a Moroccan bank in accordance w i th current foreign exchange regu la t ion s. They may be deb i ted for transfers abroad or for purchases of dirhams for all domes t ic se t t lemen ts. There are no res t r ic t ions on the rate of interest payable on these ac- coun ts or on t rans fe rs be tween fo re ign currency accounts or between these accounts and conv e r t ib le d i rh am accoun ts. Au tho r ized banks may issue international credit cards to ho lde rs of these accoun ts. Overdraf ts on these accounts are not permitted. Moroccan exporters of goods and services ho ld ing convertible export promotion accounts (CCPEX) are a l lowed to open fo re ign exchange accounts; those w i thout a CCPEX must ob ta in p r i or approval f rom the FEO. Up to 20% of fore ign exchange receipts from exports may be credited to these accoun ts ( f i s h i ng companies may credit up to 25%) and the re- m a ind er mu st be sold to Mo roccan banks. These accounts may also be credited with the proceeds f rom f i n a n c i al inve s tmen ts made f rom the balances on the accounts and with t ran s fe rs f rom o ther fo r e ign exchange accounts of the same account holder. These accounts may be f ree ly deb i ted for payment of bus iness expenses, as provided for in the exchange regu la t ion s; inves tment in au tho r ized in termed iary banks; subscribing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury; c r ed i t ing ano ther foreign exchange account or a CCPEX held in the expo r te r 's name; and su r render of fo re ign currency to banks. Approval required He ld abroad Yes. These a c coun ts may be he ld abroad but p r ior approval is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 661 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts perm itted Nonresident Accounts Two types of accoun ts may be opened. (1) Foreign cu r rency accoun ts in the names of for- e ign n a t i o n a ls may be m a i n t a i n ed by n a tu r al or j u r i d i c al persons of fo re ign na t iona l i ty who are e i ther residents or nonresidents. These accounts are regulated by the provisions pertain- ing to the fo re ign currency accounts of resident foreign na t iona ls and operate on the same terms as those opened by n o n r e s i d e nt fo re ign n a t ion a l s. They may be cred i ted f ree ly w i th t rans fe rs f rom abroad; w i th fo re ign bankno tes, checks, and t rave le r 's checks; w i th any o ther means of payment denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency; and w i th fo re ign currency w i th- drawn f rom domestic banks, f o l l ow i ng gene ral or special au tho r iza t ion f rom the FEO. They may be debited freely for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a foreign th i rd party, for the surrender of foreign currency to domestic banks, and for the payment of checks denom ina ted in fo re ign currency. (2) Foreign currency accoun ts may be opened by Moroccan n a t ion a ls r e s id ing abroad. These accoun ts may be credited f ree ly w i th transfers f rom abroad, w i th checks or any o ther means of payment denom ina ted in fore ign currency, fore ign cu r rency w i thd rawn f rom domestic banks fo l low ing general or special authorization from the FEO, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and trans- fers from another fore ign currency account or from an account in convertible dirhams. They may be deb i ted f r e e ly for t ran s fe rs abroad, t rans fe rs to ano ther account in foreign cu r rency or in conve r t ib le d i rhams, fore ign currency sub s c r ip t ions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for the surrender of fore ign cu r rency to domestic banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These are restricted to resident and nonresident natural and ju r id i c al persons of foreign na t iona l i ty and are regulated by the provisions applicable to convertible dirham accounts of res ident fore ign na t iona ls. There are no res t r ic t ions on the open ing of conve r t ib le d irham accounts, on transfers between fo re ign accoun ts in conv e r t ib le d i rhams, or on transfers of in teres t. Ho lders of these accounts may ob ta in in te rna t ional c red it cards for se t t lement of all expenses in Morocco and abroad. Conver t ib le d i rham accoun ts may be opened f ree ly in the name of Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restric- t ions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited free ly with (1) dirhams f rom the sale of conve r t ib le currenc ies, i n c l u d i ng banknotes, to domestic banks; (2) trans- fers au tho r ized by the FEO; (3) payments of in terest accrued on these accounts; (4) trans- fers f rom fo re ign accoun ts in conve r t ib le d i rhams; and (5) t rans fe rs f rom term deposits in conve r t ib le d i rham accoun ts. They may be debited f ree ly for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from domestic banks, (2) d i rham payments in Morocco, (3) transfers to foreign accoun ts in conve r t ib le d irhams, and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible d i rham accoun ts. Ove rd ra f ts are not a l lowed, and the re are no re s t r ic t ions on the in terest rate payab le. These accoun ts may also be deb i ted f ree ly for the b e n e f it of e i ther the account ho lder or for o ther non re s iden t s, for the purchase of fo re ign bankno tes, t rave le r 's checks, or o ther for- e ign cu r rency -denom ina ted means of paymen t. Ba lances on these accoun ts may be used to f inance expend i tu res contracted abroad that are linked to the p ro fess ional ac t iv i ty of those concerned. N o n r e s i d e nt fo re ign n a t i o n a ls not e n t i t l ed to m a i n t a in conve r t ib le d i rh am accoun ts may open forward conve r t ib le accounts. Funds on these accoun ts may be transferred w i t h in a max imum period of f ive years in annual installments of 20%. The holders of these ac- counts may use the available fund s, w i thout prior authorization from the FEO, to fund in- ves tmen ts in Morocco; buy t reasu ry bonds; purchase Moroccan marke tab le secur i t ies; settle expenses in cu r r ed in Morocco; and, fn the case of fo re ign corporations, p rov ide the ir Mo- roccan sub s id i a r i es w i th cu r rent account advances. Ho lde rs may also t rans fer f ree ly the balances to res ident or non r e s id ent fo re igne rs or to Moroccan na t iona ls res id ing abroad. The rec ip ien ts of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by fore ign companies shooting f i lms in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 662 MOROCCO certain conditions; and to finance up to 50% of an investor's share investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three- year waiting period. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum rate of advance payments for imports of capital goods is 40% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Advance payment is limited to the foreign exchange equivalent of DH 20,000 for imported spare parts, consumer goods, and samples. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. For certain groups of goods, however, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad. This group includes (1) externally financed imports if the terms include foreign insurance; (2) capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts; and (3) crude oil, gas, cattle, and wood. For all imports, a commercial security must be underwritten by the importer and domiciled at an authorized bank to cover eventual payment for goods and related services. Domicili- ation is not required for imports that do not involve payments. Imports are not restricted, except for arms and explosives; secondhand clothing; chemical products that deplete the ozone layer; and wheels with used tires or retreads, which require licenses. Imports of products that affect public health, morals, order, and security may be prohibited. Imports may be restricted for limited periods to protect infant industries or to countervail dumping. Tariff measures may be established for five years to protect infant industries, and they may be extended to eight years. In the case of dumping, the product in question is subject to a prior import declaration for a maximum period of nine months and this measure is renewable once. During this period, investigations are carried out to determine whether or not dumping is taking place and, if it is, to determine what tariff measures are to be introduced. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. A large number of consumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 10% duty. Imports of products to be used in the manufacture of goods for export are exempt from customs duties. Specific rates are applied to certain agricultural products. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters must provide an export certificate guaranteeing repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange proceeds. Certain exports are exempt from this regulation. Proceeds from exports may be collected abroad and used directly to finance imports of goods and raw materials needed to manufacture goods for export. Foreign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract. In principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of the shipment of the goods. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Exporters are authorized to maintain up to 20% of export earnings in convertible dirham or foreign exchange accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 663 Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must p rov ide an export cer t if ica te guaran tee ing repatriation and surrender of proceeds from the ir exports. Preshipment inspection A l though not requ i red, exports of food produc ts may be subject to qua l i ty control. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of grain f lou r; charcoal; archaeological items; chemical products that deplete the ozone layer; and h ides and skins require export licenses. Effec t ive October 31, 2002, li- censing requ iremen ts for certain hides and skins were abolished. A tax of DH 34 a ton is levied on exports of phosphates. A 1% qua l i ty control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Effec t ive Ju ly 5, 2002, authority is delegated to intermediary banks to provide foreign ex- change —with specified limits, where applicable —to pay expenses related to international trade transac t ions, i n c l u d i ng transpor ta t ion, techn ical assistance, and all other types of cur- rent in terna t ional transaction services. Payments for f re igh t, un load ing, and storage are not restricted. Importers may pay for overweight f re ight charges in amounts not exceeding 10% of the amount in i t ia l ly stated in the commercial contract, as well as any penalty for the late shipment. Representation charges may be settled for up to 10% of the export value; this limit may be exceeded only when payment is made by debit to a CCPEX. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments In general, there are no restrictions on the transfer of profits, dividends, and income from investments, or on payments of interest on loans. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits on transfers of interest. These transfers must be market based. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Effec t ive February 12, 2002, authorized banks may provide Moroccan or foreign nationals the equivalent of DH 15,000 (previously DH 10,000) a person a year. This allowance may be increased by DH 5,000 (prev ious ly DH 3,000) for a minor ch i ld on the passport of the bene f ic ia ry parent when accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan nationals l iv ing abroad upon their return to their home country, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remit- tances w i t h in the p rev ious 12 months, up to a l im it of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty who wish to travel abroad may be granted the foreign exchange equivalent of all the ir income savings. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be f inanced without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts ma in ta ined w i th Moroccan banks. In the case of travel allowances for other pur- poses, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the FEO on the basis of need, with a da i ly l im it of DH 2,000. Banks have been empowered to provide advance allow- ances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-sized enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for bus iness travel by ind iv idu a ls not be long ing to either of these categories. Larger allowances may be approved by the FEO on proof of need. In all cases, allowances for specific business travel cannot be added to other allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers for f am i ly ma in tenance and a l imony payments are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by pub l ic and private agencies in favor of retirees residing abroad permanently. Approval from the M in is t ry of Health is required to make transfers abroad for medical expenses when the pa t ient is not covered by an insurance policy. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to Moroccan nationals for travel abroad for med ical t rea tment up to a m ax imum of the equ iva lent of DH 30,000, and to make transfers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 MOROCCO on pa t ien ts' beha lf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical ins t i tu t ions con- cerned. School fees to foreign academic i n s t i t u t i o ns may be transferred according to the f o l l ow i ng l im i t s: (1) an a n n u al in s t a l l a t ion a l lowance equ iv a l ent to DH 20,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a m inor student leav ing Morocco for the first t ime; (2) school fees to fore ign academic in s t i tu t ion s, in un l im i t ed amounts, upon presenta- t ion of suppo r t ing documen ts; and (3) an a l lowance for l i v i ng expenses amoun t ing to the e q u i v a l e nt of DH 6,000 a mon th for non scho la r sh ip holders and DH 4,000 a month for scho larsh ip holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect payment of rent and correspond ing charges in favor of a fo re ign land lo rd once the s tudent or his or her legal gua rd ian has subm i t ted a lease and a ce r t i f ica te of res idence or any other equ iva lent documen t. Indicative limits/bona fide test A p p l i c a t i o ns for add i t ional amoun ts must be referred to the FEO for approval, wh ich is granted on proof of need. Quantitative limits C red it card use abroad Prior approval Foreign na t iona ls res id ing in Morocco and employed in e i ther the private or pub l ic sectors or engaged in p ro fess ions in indus t ry, commerce, and ag r icu l tu re may transfer all the ir income. They may con t r ibu te f ree ly to pens ion or social secur i ty f u n ds in the ir coun tr ies of o r ig in. These arrangements apply equa l ly to foreign spouses of Moroccan nationals. Commerc ial banks may t rans fer pens ions paid by government or private organizations to retired i n d i v i d u a ls res id ing permanently abroad. In addition, retired foreign nationals and fo re ign spouses of Moroccan n a t ion a ls may t rans fer th e ir en t i re pensions. Banks may issue c red it cards w i t h o ut res t r ic t ion to (1) fore ign na t iona ls ho ld ing accounts in fo re ign cu r r en cy or conve r t ib le d i rham s; (2) Moroccan res iden ts re s id ing abroad who ho ld accoun ts in conve r t ib le d i rhams or in fore ign exchange; and (3) exporters of foods and services ho ld ing foreign currency accounts or a CCPEX. FEO approval is required for other categories. Quantitative limits The l im it is the am o u nt of f u n ds in the b en e f i c i a ry 's accoun t. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatr iat ion requirements Re s iden ts of Moroccan n a t i o n a l i t y, i n c l u d i ng i n d i v i d u a ls and corporations, must repatriate fo r e ign exchange rece ip ts acc ru ing f rom all th e ir c la ims on non res iden ts and sell them to an authorized bank. Resident foreign na t iona ls must repatriate on ly those foreign exchange rece ip ts that re su lt f rom t h e ir a c t i v i t i es in Morocco. Repa t r ia t ion must take place w i t h in one mon th of the date of the c la im. Su r render r e q u i r em e n ts Expor ters of services may keep up to 20% of th e ir fo re ign exchange receipts in foreign cu r r en cy or conve r t ib le d i rham accoun ts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts The issue of capital market secur i t ies by nonresidents is proh ib i ted. There are, however, no con t ro ls on the sale of Moroccan secu r i t ies by non res iden ts. Proceeds from such sales may be t rans fe r red f ree ly, p rov ided that the re levant purchases are f inanced by fore ign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by res iden ts MOROCCO 665 inf lows or other comparable means. In other cases, the proceeds must be deposited in a convertible d irham account and may be transferred abroad over a five-year period. Purchases of fo re ign secu r i t ies by res iden ts of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and transfers of the funds requ i red for such pu rchases are sub ject to the p r ior approval of the FEO. Au tho r ized in termed iary banks may place fore ign currency w i th correspondent banks abroad and may acqu i re sovereign secu r i t ies issued by in terna t ional financial institutions. Residents of for- eign na t iona l i ty are free to purchase securities abroad, provided that these purchases are financed from the ir foreign exchange ho ld ings abroad or from balances on their foreign currency accounts or convertible d irham accounts. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts These t ran sac t ions are sub ject to p r ior FEO au tho r i z a t ion. Bonds or other debt securities The regu la t ions govern ing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market i n s t r um e n ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of these i n s t r um e n ts by non re s iden ts is p roh ib i ted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by Moroccan na t iona ls requ i re pr ior FEO au tho r iza t ion. Residents of foreign n a t ion a l i ty are free to engage in these transactions, provided they are financed w i th the ir own foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents These t ransac t ions r equ i re p r ior FEO au tho r i z a t ion. On collective investment securities The regu la t ions gove rn ing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Pu rchase loca l ly by non r e s id en ts These in s t rumen ts have not been developed in Morocco. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts These in s t rumen ts have not been developed in Morocco. Pu rchase abroad by res iden ts Res iden ts of Moroccan n a t i o n a l i ty may subsc r ibe to these in s t rum en ts abroad on ly w i th the pr ior approval of the FEO. Au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry banks are a l lowed to engage in fo re ign exchange b u y i ng and s e l l i ng opera t ions w i th fore ign banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents The issue abroad of these ins trumen ts by Moroccan residents is subject to prior approval by the FEO. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F in an c i al c red i ts By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gua ran tees, su re t ies, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Me rchand i se exporters are free to extend commerc ial credits to non res iden ts for up to 150 days. Credits w i th longer terms may be extended w i th FEO approval. The g ran t ing of f inanc ial loans by res iden ts to nonres iden ts is subject to the approval of the FEO. Moroccan en te rp r ises are free to ob ta in c red i ts abroad, p rov ided that these are used to fi- nance inv e s tm ent or fo re ign trade. Repaymen ts f rom Morocco must be made th rough the b a n k i ng system. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonres iden ts in support of the participation of these nonresidents in markets abroad (the supp ly ing of goods or services), the re fund of down payments received from foreign cus- tomers, and the gua ran tee of loans or any o ther f i n a n c i al in s t rumen ts mob i l ized in accor- dance w i th fo re ign exchange regu la t ion s. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonres iden ts in. support of the participation of these nonresidents in pub l ic or private con- trac t ing, supp ly ing of goods or services, and the re fund of down payments. They may also issue sureties on beha lf of nonres iden ts in settlement of tax l iab i l i t ies or f inanc ial obliga- t ions. A coun terguaran tee from a fore ign bank is requ ired for sureties issued by Moroccan ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 666 MOROCCO Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment banks on behalf of nonresidents. When claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. Outward direct investments are subject to prior approval of the FEO, but residents of for- eign nationality are free to invest abroad, provided that the operations are financed from their own assets abroad or from the ir holdings denominated in convertible dirhams or for- eign currency. There are no controls on transfers made directly through the banking system of the pro- ceeds of the liquidation or sale of foreign investment, inc lud ing capital gains when such investment is governed by the convertibility arrangement (financing by sale of foreign ex- change or other comparable methods). For the liquidation of any investment not fa l l ing under this category, the relevant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit account denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be transferred over a five-year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions These operations are subject to the investment regime. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of real estate abroad by Moroccan nationals require prior FEO authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign nationals may purchase real estate, except farmland, with funds from foreign ex- change accounts. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These operations are subject to FEO approval. However, effective December 3, 2002, Mo- roccan banks are allowed to grant loans to foreign individuals for the purchase or develop- ment of real estate in Morocco up to 70% of the value of the real estate. By residents to nonresidents These operations are subject to FEO approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G i f ts and endowments are subject to prior FEO authorization; transfers of inheritance may be effected freely if the inherited property is subject to convertibility arrangements; other- wise under final departure arrangements, if such transfers have not been already used by the deceased. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These operations are unrestricted, provided they are financed from the foreign assets of the parties concerned or from their assets in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Upon final departure from Morocco, foreign nationals may transfer those assets not subject to the conver t ib i l i ty arrangement for amounts up to DH 25,000 or its equ iva lent for each year of stay in Morocco. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These earnings are transferable, provided that the gambling was financed with foreign currency. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may borrow abroad only to f inance foreign trade or investment operations. Lending by Moroccan banks is subject to FEO approval. However, banks may grant loans to nonresident foreign ind iv idua ls for purchases or development of the real estate in Mo- rocco, up to 70% of the va lue of the real estate. Banks may use cash held in foreign ex- change accounts (by foreign nationals, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) to provide suppliers' credits to foreign customers to f inance Moroccan exports. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange FEO approval is required for these operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 667 These transactions are subject to the pr ior approval of the FEO. Purchase of locally issued secur i t ies denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Convertible d irham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken into account in the calculation of liquid asset requirements. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Overdraft pos i t ion is not permitted in foreign exchange accounts. These opera t ions are subject to approval by the FEO and the monetary authorities. Effec- tive May 20, 2002, au tho r ized in termed iary banks may undertake foreign exchange invest- ments with counterparts abroad and may purchase sovereign bonds and securities issued by international financial institutions. In banks by nonresidents These operations are sub ject to approval by the monetary au thor i t ies. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign exchange position l im it for each currency is 10% of net capital and 20% in aggregate for all currenc ies. On resident assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of these accounts are included in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities The assets and l i ab i l i t i es of these accounts are inc luded in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 22. The Moroccan au thor i t ies no t i f ied the IMF that prior authorization of the FEO would be requ i red to conduct f in an c i al transac t ions w i th listed ind iv idua ls and entities as- sociated w i th terror ism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. Exports and export proceeds October 31. The l icen s ing requ i rement for exports of certain leather and skins was abo l ished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 12. The amount that authorized banks may provide for travel was increased to the equivalent of DH 15,000 from DH 10,000 a person a year, and the additional allowance for a t rave l ing m i n or dependent child was increased to DH 5,000 from DH 3,000. Capital transactions Con tro ls on personal cap i tal transac t ions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions July 5. Authority was delegated to intermediary banks to provide foreign exchange —with specified limits, where applicable —to pay for expenses related to international trade trans- actions, in c lud ing transportation, technical assistance, and all types of current international transac t ions. December 3. Moroccan banks were allowed to grant loans to fore ign ind iv idu a ls for pur- chases or deve lopment of real estate in Morocco up to 70% of the va lue of the real estate. May 20. Au tho r ized in termed iary banks may under take foreign exchange investments with coun terpar ts abroad and may purchase sovereign bonds and securities issued by interna- t ional f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le XIV Yes. Currency The cu r rency of Mozamb ique is the Mozambican me t ica l. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification I n d e p e n d e n t ly f l o a t i ng The ex ternal v a l ue of the metical is determined by supp ly and demand in the exchange marke t, whe re the Bank of Mozamb ique (BM), the commercial banks, and fore ign ex- change bu reaus participate. There is an in te rbank money market and an interdealer market in foreign exchange outside the f i x i ng sessions. The fo re ign exchange market is cleared twice d a i ly th rough telex and te lephone transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The m e t i c al may not be used for transac t ions abroad. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic cu r rency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in cap i tal and money m a r k et i n s t r um e n ts T ransac t ions in d e r i v a t i v es and o ther ins t rumen ts Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of fo re ign exchange among res iden ts The use of fore ign cu r rency by residents in domestic transactions is common, although not encou raged. Payments arrangements No. Adm in i s tra t ion of control The BM is r e spon s ib le for fore ign exchange po l i cy and adm in i s te rs i ts con tro l. In terna t ional secur i ty restr ict ions No. Payments arrears P r i v a te In ex c ep t ion al cases, some p r iva te sector payments arrears can be reschedu led, subject to an agreement w i th the creditor and BM approval. 668 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 669 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domes t ic ow n e r s h ip and /or trade Res iden ts other than mone tary au tho r i t i es are permitted to hold gold for num isma t ic pur- poses or as jewe lry or ornaments. Con t ro ls on ex te rnal t rade The expo r ta t ion of gold is governed by spec ial r egu l a t ion s, w h i le the same regu la t ions that app ly to o ther impo rt items are app l icab le to the impo r ta t ion of nonmone tary gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000. Non re s iden ts may export fo re ign bankno tes up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 and, above tha t, up to the amount they declared on en try. Imports of domes t ic cu r rency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000, provided they have been p rev iou s ly expor ted. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currencies in excess of the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts He ld dome s t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Ju r id i c al persons must report the opening of such accounts to the BM. No. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accoun ts may be opened w i th funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from emp loyment and techn ical assistance contracts approved by the appropriate ins t i tu t ions; t ran s fe rs of such f u n ds abroad are perm i t ted once the o r ig in of the f u n ds has been proven. Convertible in to fore ign cu r rency This is permitted for funds whose o r ig in has been proven; p r ior approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment r equ i r em en ts Do cum en t a ry proof of the a r r ival of goods has to be p resen ted. Documentation requ irements for release of fore ign exchange for imports D om i c i l i a t i on r e q u i r em e n ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 670 MOZAMBIQUE Preshipment inspection Inspections are performed randomly, depending on the type of merchandise. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports must be registered with customs. A single-document import procedure is required. Negative list A nega t ive product list exists for imports f inanced by donors' or creditors' funds. The re- cipients of the funds are responsible for p rocu r ing the products themselves. Some import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. Open general licenses A single-document import procedure is in effect. Import taxes and/or tariffs A variable import surcharge is in effect on sugar. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Other Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds, except in cases au thor ized by the BM, must be collected through commercial banks. No. Yes. Yes. All exports must be registered w i th customs. A s ing le-document export procedure is requ ired. An export du ty of 18% is levied on raw cashew nu ts. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Exchange bureaus are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 to ind iv idua ls to pay expenses associated w i th travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for f i lm rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to pub l ica t ions. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 for the payment of all types of inv is ib le transactions and current transfers, except for profits and dividends from investments. Op- erations exceeding the l im i ts and those re la t ing to prof i ts and d iv idends are subject to prior approval of the BM. Yes. Remittances of prof i ts and d iv idends from foreign direct inves tment may be made in accor- dance with the specific project au thor iza t ion. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign experts wo rk ing in Mozamb ique may remit abroad all or part of the ir salaries, de- pend ing on the terms of their employment contracts. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 671 Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under o f f ic ia l ly arranged contracts (specifi- cally, miners in South Africa) are obliged to remit 60% of the ir earnings through the BM and to convert them in to meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents There are controls on all capital and money market transactions. All derivative transactions are subject to control. Commercial and financial credits by public and private enterprises to residents from non- residents need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on concessional terms. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate their initial capital. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Investment Promotion Center. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing real estate and may enter into contracts only for leasing and concessions. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 MOZAMBIQUE Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are controls on all personal capital movements; however, earnings from gambling are f u l ly transferable, provided they are confirmed by the casinos, in accordance with a special permanent au tho r i z a t ion granted to the casinos by the BM. Bo r row ing abroad No pr ior approval is r equ i r ed, but the borrow ing must be registered at the BM. L e n d i ng to n o n r e s i d e n ts ( f i n a n c i al or comme rc ial cred i ts) Yes. L e n d i ng l o c a l ly in fo re ign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents A reserve r equ i r em ent of 11.5% app l ies to deposits in both domestic and foreign currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts L im i ts are set based on percent of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on secur i t ies issued by nonres iden ts L im i ts (max .) on inve s tment po r t fo l io he ld abroad L im i ts (m i n .) on i n v e s tm e nt p o r t f o l io he ld lo c a l ly Cu r rency -ma tch ing r e g u l a t i o ns on a s se t s / l iab i l i t ies compo s i t ion Other controls imposed by securities laws Prior BM approval is requ i red, P r ior BM app roval is requ i red, P r ior BM approval is r equ i r ed, Yes. n . r. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed f lo a t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Myanmar is the Myanmar kya t. In addition to the o f f i c i al exchange rate, an u n o f f i c i al rate is de term ined on a parallel for- eign exchange market. Foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar (CBM) in denom ina t ions of 1, 5, 10, and 20 un i ts and are exchangeable w i th euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and dollars or with authorized traveler's checks at the rate of FEC 1 per $1. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs may be exchanged for kyats at the parallel market- determined rate at FEC exchange centers. Holders of FECs may open foreign currency accoun ts and/or deposit the ir FECs in to th e ir fore ign exchange accounts. The kyat is o f f i c i a l ly pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1 w i th in marg ins of ± 1%. The exchange rates of the kyat for the euro, Bangladesh taka, Ind ian rupee, Japanese yen, Pakistan rupee, pound s te r l ing, Sri Lankan rupee, Swiss f ranc, and the do l lar are deter- mined on the basis of the da i ly calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. The exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market. The exchange rate of the parallel market, through wh ich the ma jor i ty of foreign exchange transac t ions take place, is determined f ree ly. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements w i th member coun t r ies of the ACU are made in AMUs th rough the ACU mechan ism. The requ i rement that border trade be conducted only in dollars has been re- laxed, and the f o l l ow i ng currenc ies, in add i t ion to the do l lar and kyat, may be used in th e ir respective border areas: Ind i an rupees, Chinese yuan, Thai baht, and Lao kip. Con tro ls on the use of domes t ic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts Transactions in der iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts Credit operations Use of fo re ign exchange among residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 673 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 674 MYANMAR Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Myanmar is a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trade arrangements with neighboring countries exist. These arrangements do not provide for the extension of credit. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Exchange control is administered by the CBM in accordance w i th ins truc t ions from the M in i s t ry of F inance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime M in is ter allocates foreign exchange for the pub l ic sector. Ten percent of the gross earnings of Myanmar na t iona ls working abroad must be paid as income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay this tax. On March 13, 2002, the Myanmar authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze the funds and other financial assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears are ma in ta ined with respect to debt-service payments of the central government. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal use may be b rought in to Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. Per- sonal jewe l ry of a prescribed va lue may be taken ou t, subject to approval by the con tro l ler of foreign exchange and the condition that the jewelry be brought back into the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Gold bu l l ion may not be imported from any source. The export of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Residents, other than government o f f ic ia l s, who have been granted an o f f ic ial permit to travel abroad are allowed to buy the equ iva lent of $100-$200 from the Myanmar Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB) and the Myanmar Investment and Commercial Bank on presentation of FECs from the ir own foreign currency accounts. Government o f f ic ia ls are allowed to take out the equ iva lent of $500 when traveling abroad. Nonres iden ts leaving Myanmar w i th in six months of arriving may take out any balance of foreign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the FECs purchased in excess of the m in imum required purchase of $200 or its equivalent. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Travelers may br ing in up to $2,000 or its equivalent without any declaration. Tourists arriving in Myanmar are required to purchase FECs equivalent to a m in imum value of $200, but amounts in excess of th is m in imum may be reconverted into foreign exchange on departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Approval required MYANMAR 675 Foreign currency accounts of national firms may be kept with private domestic banks per- mitted to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars only by Myanmar nationals who earn foreign exchange. Account holders are allowed to import under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of LCs or on a collection basis. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examination fees for their children, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of funds between ac- counts are permitted. Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only for payment of official expenses. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of diplomatic missions and international organizations and their home-based personnel may be kept with the MFTB only. For other nonresidents, prior ap- proval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but all debits and credits require prior authorization. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget An import program for the pub l ic sector is prepared annua l ly as part of the foreign ex- change budget drawn up jointly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Devel- opment and the MFR. Financing requirements for imports Imports are permitted relative to the level of export earnings. Advance payment requirements A 100% advance payment is required. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports from countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations are prohibited. The state economic enterprises (SEEs) under the different minis- tries are authorized to engage in their own external trade, but must apply for an ex- port/import license from the MOC. Private importers also need to obtain licenses, and their imports must consist of 80% of priority items A and 20% of priority items B. Generally, no quota or ceiling is imposed on import items. Some restrictions apply to the imports of cer- ta in goods, mainly foods tu f fs (e.g., monosodium glutamate, soft drinks, all types of bis- cuits, canned goods, instant noodles, liquors, beer, cigarettes, and fresh or dried fru i t). Ef- fective April 24, 2002, import licenses for foreign trading companies were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 676 Nega t ive l i st MYANMAR Certain items, such as op ium and o ther narco t ics, p lay ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion, may not be imported from any source. Open general licenses OGLs are issued on a case-by-case basis. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tar iff rates range f rom zero to 40%. A g r i c u l t u r al imp lemen ts, raw materials, and other essen t ial imports are taxed at low rates, w h i le the h ighest rates are applied to imports of l u x u ry goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be f u l ly repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of c r ed it P re sh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Expo rt trade may be conduc ted w i th any coun t ry w i t h o ut res tr ic t ion, except with those und er UN embargo or w i th wh i ch Myanmar has severed d ip loma t ic relations. Export li- censes of fore ign t r ad ing compan ies were suspended on Apr il 24, 2002. In prac t ice, state agencies respons ib le for produc t ion may export any product in excess of that wh ich is needed for domestic con sump t ion. Special permits are required for exports of a n t i q u e s. State en terpr ises have a monopo ly on the export of rice, teak, pe tro leum, na tu ral gas, pearls, jade, and other p rec ious stones and metals. R ice is exported by Myanmar Agri- c u l t u r al P roduce T rad ing. Local en t rep reneu rs invo lved in land reclamation projects are permitted to export 50% of the rice they have produced. Private traders and cooperatives are also pe rm i t ted to export some beans and pu lses, ra t tan, f lou r, and cut flowers under v a l id export perm i ts issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain produc ts, i n c l u d i ng rice, teak, rubbe r, pe t ro leum, h ide s, lea ther, some beans and pulses, maize, co t ton, and ground- n u t s, is not perm i t ted. Exports from wh ich proceeds are received in foreign currency are subject to a commercial tax of 8% and an income tax of 2%. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related paymen ts Prior approval A ll paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es ou t s ide the p u b l ic sector are sub ject to approval, wh ich is gran ted on a case-by-case bas is. The m a x im um amount that may be rem i t ted against FECs is $10,000 a mon th or its e q u i v a l e n t. P r i or approval f rom the C o n t r o l l er of Foreign Exchange is requ i red for remittances of in- surance p r em ium s. Inves tmen t-re la ted payments Informa t ion is not ava i lab le on the amortization of loans or the depreciation of direct inves tmen ts. Prior approval Paymen ts for t ravel Prior approval Quantitative limits Pe r sonal p aym en ts Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval MYANMAR 677 Remittances to retired government employees are permitted only if the persons concerned were not Myanmar nationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Fam i ly remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the government or by the private firms established under the Foreign Investment Law. The limit is one-half of the net salary if the spouse is l iv ing abroad, and one- th ird of the net salary if the spouse is l i v i ng in Myanmar. Balances of salary and l aw fu l ly earned income that remain after payment of taxes and de- duction of l iv ing expenses of the worker and his or her fam i ly may be transferred abroad through a bank w i th the approval of the CBM. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Use of funds is subject to exchange control approval. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The Myanmar Inves tment Commission may accept proposals for investment from foreign- ers for f u ll ownersh ip and under a jo in t -ven tu re arrangement, with the share of foreign capi- tal rep resen t ing at least 35% of the total cap i ta l. To fac i l i ta te and promote foreign invest- ment, the commission may grant exemptions from customs du t ies and other internal taxes on machinery and equipment imported du r ing construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw materials imported for the first three years of commercial production, as well as exemptions from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years — inc lud ing the year when production of goods and services began —or for longer than three years, depend ing upon the p ro f i tab i l i ty of the enterprise. In addition, accelerated deprecia- t ion a l lowances may be g ran ted. Types of econom ic ac t iv i ty and the sectors open to foreign inves tment are spec if ied in a de ta i led pos i t ive l is t. The gove rnment gua ran tees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit w i ll not be na t iona l ized d u r i ng the term of the contract or du r ing an extended term. Repatriation of capital and p ro f i ts is a l lowed th rough banks after payment of taxes and prescribed funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 MYANMAR Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors but may be leased from the state. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad State approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The Myanmar authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze the funds and other financial assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and import payments April 24. Import licenses for foreign trading companies were suspended. Exports and export proceeds April 24. Export licenses for foreign trading companies were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Nam ib ia is the Nam ib ia do l lar. The South Afr ican rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Nam ib ia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange market in Nam ib ia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Africa. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, inc lud ing for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and non- trade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the out- standing commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresidents, subject to certain l im i ta t ions. Gold m in ing companies and houses may sell forward antici- pated rece ip ts of th e ir fu tu re gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is ava i lab le to au thor ized dealers for ma tu r i t ies not exceed ing 12 mon ths at a time in the form of swap transactions invo lv ing Nam ib ia dollars (South A f r ican rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on the interest rate d ifferen t ial between the two currencies. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Special forward cover at p re fe ren t ial rates is prov ided for import f inanc ing. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts If a particular type of payment is not covered in the Exchange Control Rulings, an applica- tion is lodged with the Bank of Nam ib ia (BON). Each application is considered on its merits. In accordance w i th the CM A arrangements, residents are not allowed to transact business in foreign currencies. Transactions may be invoiced in foreign currencies, but payments must be made in local currency. N am i b ia is part of the CM A, and no res t r ic t ions are app l ied to payments w i t h in the CMA. The BON has delegated some powers to au thor ized dealers who assist the BON in adm in is- ter ing exchange con tro l. Where an authorized dealer is not empowered to approve a trans- action under the terms of the Exchange Control Rulings, an application is lodged with the BON. The norms applied by the BON in scrutinizing applications are subject to policy gu ide l ines established w i th in the CMA. In accordance w i th UN Secu r i ty Counc il reso lu t ions, the BON proh ib i ts f inanc ial transac- t ions with the Taliban, effec t ive March 1, 2002. Payments arrears No. 679 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 NAMIBIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l i on) The exchange con trol regu la t ions p roh ib it the purchase and sale, both domestically and abroad, of unw rought gold by N am i b i an residents w i thout the specific authority of the BON. A ll such reques ts a re considered on me r i t. Con tro ls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and /or trade Res iden ts are perm i t ted to purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins w i t h in the CMA for num is- ma t ic and inves tment purposes only. Con t ro ls on e x t e r n al t rade A ll expor ts and impo r ts of gold requ i re the pr ior approval of the mone tary au tho r i ty. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On expo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency An i n d i v i d u al may export up to N$5,000. R e s id en ts and con t ract workers depa r t ing f rom N am i b ia to des t ina t ions ou ts ide the CMA may take out t h e ir travel a l low an ce in fo re ign bankno tes. Fore ign v is i to rs leav ing N am i b ia may take w i th them the un spent por t ion of the proceeds of foreign currency imported and exchanged in N am i b i a. Upon en t ry f rom c o u n t r i es ou t s ide the CMA, res iden ts and non re s iden ts may b r ing in a total of N$5,000 in N am i b i an bankno tes or R 5,000 in South A f r ican banknotes. There are no l im i t a t ions on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Impo r ta t ion of fo r e ign cu r rency by non re s iden ts of the CMA is unrestricted. However, N am ib i an res iden ts are on ly allowed to import in to N am ib ia the res idual ba lance of foreign currency i n i t i a l ly exported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts He ld dome s t ica l ly H e ld abroad Res ident p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls are allowed to ho ld foreign currency accounts w i th local au- tho r i z ed dea lers, sub ject to p r ior approval. For amoun ts at or exceeding N$50,000, forms A and E mu st be comp le ted for sales and purchases of fo re ign exchange. The amount of N$750,000 a l low ed for inv e s tm ent by re s ident p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls may also be he ld in a dome s t ic fo re ign ex ch ange a c coun t. A p p r o v al is r e q u i r ed and is granted on the m e r it of the a p p l i c a t i o n. Pr iva te i n d i v i d u a ls a re a l low ed to i n v e st up to N$750,000 and to r e t a in abroad income earned overseas. No p r ior approval is r e q u i r ed for these t ransac t ions. A c coun ts in domest ic currency he ld abroad n.a. Accoun ts in domes t ic currency conver t ib le in to fore ign currency P aym en ts in fo r e ign c u r r e n cy may be e f fec ted f rom r e s id ent accoun t s, prov ided the transac- t i on is covered u n d er the E x c h a n ge Con t rol R u l i n gs or whe re p r ior approval has been ob t a in ed. Foreign exchange accounts perm i t ted Nonresident Accounts On ly fo re ign cu r rency accoun ts of export-processing zone (EPZ) customers are a l lowed. These a c c o u n ts are kept o f f sho re v ia a local au tho r i z ed dea ler and are set up to fac i l i ta te the f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy d i sbu r s em en ts of EPZ en te rp r ises. T ransac t ions th rough these accoun ts m u st c o n f o rm to n o rm al b a n k i ng p rac t ices and mu st be carried out with the f u ll cognizance and app rov al of the au tho r i z ed dea ler concerned. For other residents, pr ior approval is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 681 Domestic currency accounts The regu la t ions that apply to these accoun ts in South A f r ica also apply in Namibia. EPZ nonresident accounts are allowed. These are Nam ib ia dollar accounts funded with foreign currency that are used for the normal operational requirements and expenditures of EPZ en terpr ises and to fac i l i ta te local inves tmen ts. Balances rema in ing in these accounts are f ree ly conv e r t ib le and t rans fe rab le abroad. Conver t ib le in to fore ign currency These accoun ts may be converted, but approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Res iden ts who emigrated f rom N am i b ia on or before Ap r il 1, 1998, could be allowed, upon application to the BON, to transfer their blocked funds abroad. The accounts of residents who emigrated af ter that date were subject to normal emigration procedures. Effective Feb- ruary 28, 2002 au thor ized dealers are allowed to release all blocked funds of emigrants that have been he ld in N am i b ia up to th is date. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payment for the importation of capital goods is allowed upon f i l ing an application with the BON. Authorized dealers may approve 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods as well as "cash-with-order" advance payments of up to N$50,000 a transaction for permissible imports other than capital goods. Documen ta t ion c o n f i rm i ng receipt of the imported articles into Namibia (e.g., a b i ll of en- try or local post receipts) is required. Letters of credit LCs may be established locally by authorized dealers. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on imports or ig ina t ing in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are u su a l ly licensed in conformity w i th South A f r ica 's import regu la t ions. Permits are va l id for one year for imports f rom any coun t ry outside the SACU and are expressed in va lue terms. At present, about 90% of imports require a permit. Nam ib ia has the r ight to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU and, under certain conditions, from countries w i th in the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system A general sales tax of 10% is levied on all imports in addition to a sales du ty between zero and 15%, depend ing on the type of commodity. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are norma l ly requ ired to be repatriated w i th in 30 days of accrual. Surrender requ iremen ts Exporters are allowed to re ta in export proceeds for 180 days af ter accrual in a customer fo re ign cu r rency account w i th au tho r ized dealers. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports f rom N am ib ia over the amount of N$50,000 must be accompanied by an export declaration, and, upon receipt of export proceeds locally, the inf low of foreign currency must be declared. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Yes. Yes. All exports, except to SACU member coun t r ies, requ i re a license. Permits are required for exports of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 NAMIBIA Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized dealers may approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits. Larger amounts may be granted on pres- entation of documentary proof of need. Virtually all remaining controls on current account transactions have been liberalized, except in cases where limits were retained to maximize the effectiveness of remaining controls on capital outflows. No prior approval is required, but if a local company is contracting any loans via a local source, an application should be filed with the BON. The repayment of foreign loans re- quires BON approval. Residents aged 12 years or older may obtain up to N$ 140,000 a person a year and those aged less than 12 years may obtain up to N$45,000 a person a year. Residents traveling to destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take out the foreign exchange that was made available to them in any form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits are approved when the applicant provides docu- ments in support of a bona fide request. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on payments of medical costs and alimony (the latter are subject to presentation of a court order). Applications for the transfer of pensions are considered on the merits of each case. The annual allowance for study abroad for a single student is N$ 140,000 and for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse is N$280,000. Family maintenance transfers are lim- ited to N$7,000 a month for a recipient family. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits for payment of study abroad are approved when applicants provide documents in support of a bona fide request. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Contract workers may transfer two-thirds of their mon th ly salary. No prior approval is required for travel expenses. Limits must be in accordance with prescribed travel allowances. Authorized dealers may permit up to N$20,000 a transaction for permissible imports. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Applications are considered on the merits of the particular case. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Namibian private individuals may retain income earned abroad from any source other than merchandise exports. Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is authorized. Restrictions on use of funds Prior BON approval should be obtained to use such funds outside the CMA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 683 Controls on capital transactions The investment l im it for private residents abroad is N$750,000. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward transfers of capital f rom non-CMA coun tr ies for equity investment are free ly per- mitted, whereas app l ica t ions by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CM A for bona f ide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expans ion of ex is t ing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on the ir merits. Nam ib ian corporations are allowed to invest substantial amounts in the SADC member coun t r ies, and dual listing of companies on both the Nam ib ia Stock Exchange and other SADC stock exchanges is permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CM A securities, real estate, and other equ i ty investments by non res iden ts are f ree ly transferab le. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted up to the N$750,000 foreign investment limit of resident individuals. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Interest rates applicable on foreign currency-denominated loans should not exceed LIBOR p lus 2%, wh i le those on local currency-denominated loans should not exceed the prime overdraft rate plus 3%. Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to the spec if ic approval of the BON, which is gene ra l ly g iven for borrowing abroad with a ma tur i ty of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowings or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Na- m ib ia's foreign trade and other approved purposes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A who l ly nonresident-owned company may borrow 100% of shareholder equity locally. On ly companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls. Foreign loans to Nam ib ian residents requ ire pr ior approval, which is usua l ly granted when the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments, and the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of preva i l ing international rates. Companies are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 NAMIBIA G u a r a n t e e s, s u r e t i e s, a nd f i n a n c i al b a c k up f a c i l i t i es Rv residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Contro ls on d irect inv e s tm ent Ou tw a rd d i r e ct i n v e s t m e nt I nw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e nt a l lowed to borrow abroad u s ing t h e ir local ba lance sheet as a guarantee where the invest- m e nt r e q u i r ed exceeds the l i m it of NS500 m i l l i on o r, in the case of inves tmen ts in SADC m emb er c o u n t r i e s, NS750 m i l l i o n. Yes. Yes. A p p l i c a t i o ns by r e s id en ts to re ta in f u n ds in, or t rans fer them to, coun t r ies ou ts ide the CMA for bona f ide long - te rm i n v e s tm e n ts in spec i f ic deve lopment projects or for the expans ion of e x i s t i ng projects owned or con t ro l led by res iden ts are considered on the ir merits. The l im it on fore ign inve s tment in coun t r ies other than SADC member coun tr ies is N$500 m i l l i o n, and the l i m it on inv e s tm en ts in SADC member coun t r i es is N$750 m i l l i o n. Cons ide ra t ion is g iven to fore ign borrowings to f inance these investments with recourse to or g u a r a n t ee f rom N am i b i a, im p l y i ng th at the local co rpo ra t ion 's ba lance sheet may be used in n e g o t i a t i ng such a f a c i l i t y. Approved fo re ign sub s id ia r ies may expand ac t iv i t ies abroad w i t h o ut p r ior approval, provided such expansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by p ro f i ts earned by the fo re ign sub s id ia ry. N a m i b i an p r i v a te i n d i v i d u a ls over 18 years of age may inve st abroad or place in a domestic fo re ign cu r r en cy account up to N$750,000, subject to the produc t ion of a Tax Clearance C e r t i f i c a te f rom the N am i b ia I n l a nd Revenue. The inve s tment may be in any form. Income earned abroad and cap i tal in t roduced i n to N am i b ia on or af ter J u ly 1, 1997, by private ind i- v i d u a ls res ident in N am ib ia may be retransferred abroad, provided that the income and/or c ap i t al had p r e v i o u s ly been converted in to N am i b ia do l la rs. The BON is now c o n s i d e r i ng a p p l i c a t i o ns by p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls to invest in f ixed property, e.g., h o l i d ay homes and farms, in the SADC member coun t r ies. Inwa rd t ran s fe rs of cap i tal f rom non -CMA coun t r ies for equ i ty inves tment may be effected f ree ly. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inve s tment Yes. Contro ls on real estate t ran sa c t ions Pu rcha se abroad by r e s id en ts Controls on personal cap i tal transac t ions Loans These pu rcha ses are pe rm i t ted up to the N$750,000 fo re ign inve s tment l im i t. Other pur- chases are subject to exchange con trol approval. By residents to nonresidents R e s i d e n ts r e q u i re p r i or app rova l. To residents from nonresidents R e s i d e n ts r e q u i re p r i or app rova l. A u t h o r i z ed dea lers may a l low the t rans fer of loans up to a l im it of N$25,000 an app l icant a n n u a l l y. G i f t s, endowmen ts, i n h e r i t a n c e s, and legac ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Cash beque s ts and the cash proceeds of legacies and d i s t r i b u t i o ns f rom such estates due to n o n r e s i d e n ts may be rem i t ted up to N$500,000. Sums due in excess of th is amount require p r ior BON app rova l. R e s id en ts mu st dec la re f u n ds ob ta ined and repa tr ia te them to N am ib i a. A l te rna t ive ly, an e x em p t i on may be o b t a i n ed f rom the BON for the re ten t ion of such f u n ds abroad. Each a p p l i c a t i on is considered on its mer i ts. Monetary g i f ts of up to N$25,000 an applicant are a l low ed a n n u a l l y. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 685 Se t t lement of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants If the imm ig r an ts have f o rm a l ly dec lared t h e ir assets and l i a b i l i t i es and have no cash re- sources ava i lab le w i th wh i ch to pay the debt, the BON may cons ider requests for exemp- t ion based on me r i t. Em ig r an ts a re a l lowed to expo rt any h o u s e h o ld and p e r son al e f fec ts for an em ig r a t ing fam- i ly u n it or s ing le person w i t h in the ove ra ll in su red v a l ue of N S1 m i l l i o n. F am i l i es em i g r a t i ng o u t s i de the CMA a re gran ted the no rmal t o u r i st a l l ow a n ce and a ie pe rm i t ted to r em it up to N$400,000 (N$200,000 for s i n g le persons). Any ba lance ex c e ed ing th is l im it must be credited to an em ig rant blocked accoun t. The balance, i n c l u d i ng earned income, may be transferred und er prescribed cond i t ions. Transfer into the country by immigrants Imm i g r a n ts a re r e q u i r ed to f u r n i sh the exchange con t rol a u t h o r i t i es w i th a comp le te ac- count of t h e ir fo r e ign assets and l i a b i l i t i es at the t ime of t h e ir a r r i v a l. Any fo r e ign assets they t rans fer to N am i b ia may, th rough the same channe l, be re transferred abroad. Transfer of g am b l i ng and p r ize e a r n i n gs N o rm a l l y, N am i b i a ns a re d iscou raged f rom p a r t i c i p a t i ng in i n t e r n a t i o n al lo t te r ie s. Most reque s ts in t h is regard a re t h us d e c l i n e d. Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Bo r row ing abroad Lend ing to non re s iden ts ( f i n a n c i al or comme rc ial c red i ts) A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs a re g e n e r a l ly pe rm i t ted to ra ise f u n ds abroad in t h e ir own names for the f i n a n c i ng of N am i b i a 's fo r e ign trade and for o ther approved purposes. P r ior approval is needed for l e n d i ng not related to trade t ransac t ions. O n ly compan ies that are 75% or more f o r e i gn owned are sub ject to exchange con t ro l s, and pe rm iss ion is g i v en for local f i n a n c i al ass is tance to be gran ted to non r e s id en t -own ed compan ies aga inst a non- re s ident gua ran tee, p rov id ed the amount made a v a i l a b le does not exceed the l i m it ca lcu- lated in terms of the f o rm u la r e q u i r em e n t s. L e n d i ng lo c a l ly in fo r e ign exchange A u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay l e nd m o n ey l o c a l ly in N a m i b ia d o l l a r s. D i f f e r e n t i al t rea tment of depos it accoun ts in fo r e ign exchange Credit controls D i f f e r e n t i al t r e a tm ent of depos it accoun ts he ld by n o n r e s i d e n ts Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks As long as these depos i ts a re l i a b i l i t i es to the p u b l ic a r i s i ng f rom ope ra t ions in N am i b i a, they w i ll be in c lud ed in the basis for c a l c u l a t i ng the m i n im um l i q u id assets and reserve r e q u i r em e n t s. The l im it for c red it f a c i l i t i es to any person or g roup of related persons is 30% of a b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i o n 's c ap i t al f u n d s. In add i t ion to the above l im i t, g ran ted c r ed it f a c i l i t i es of more th an 10% of c ap i t al f u n ds may not exceed, in aggrega te, 800% of the t o t al c a p i t al f u n ds of t he b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i on in N am i b i a. These l i m i ts a p p ly to a ll cu s tome rs i r r e sp e c t ive of t h e ir c i t i z e n s h i p. As l o ng as these depo s i ts a re l i a b i l i t i es to the p u b l i c, a r i s i ng f r om o p e r a t i o ns in N a m i b i a, th ey w i ll be i n c l u d ed in t he bas is f or c a l c u l a t i ng t he m i n i m um l i q u id assets a nd reserve r e q u i r em e n t s. T he r e g u l a t i o ns g o v e r n i ng depo s it a c c o u n ts in f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge a p p l y. B ank ing i n s t i t u t i o ns are at a ll t imes r e q u i r ed to m a i n t a in m i n im um local assets s i tua ted in N am i b ia of an aggregate v a lue of not less th an 100% of the amount of t h e ir l i a b i l i t i es pay- able in N am i b ia do l la rs ( e x c l u d i ng cap i tal f u n d s ), less any d eb it ba lances d enom in a t ed in South A f r i c an rand in the c lea r ing account held w i th the ir associate banks in South A f r ica. Open fo re ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts There is no d i s t i n c t i on between res iden ts and non res iden ts. The net open pos i t ion l i m it is 15% of a b a n k 's share c a p i t al and u n im p a i r ed reserves. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t i on al investors N a m i b i an p e n s i on f u n ds and i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i es a re o b l i g ed by l aw to i n v e st 35% of t h e ir to tal assets loca l ly. L im i ts (m a x .) on s e c u r i t i es issued by n o n r e s i d e n ts The m a x im um is 65% of the to t al assets of p e n s i on f u n ds and i n s u r a n ce c om p a n i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 NAMIBIA L im i ts (max.) on investment po r t fo l io held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally W i th BON approval, q u a l i f y i ng in s t i tu t ions (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and fund managers) may invest up to 15% of total assets; the limit for investments made by u n it trusts through un it trust management companies is 20% of total assets. These investments are subject to the overall l im i ts of 10% and 20% of their total assets, respectively, and are to be made by way of asset swaps. The foreign currency transfers allowed are 10% of the total value of the local fund. Trans- fers abroad of up to 3% of the net in f low of f u n ds du r ing the preceding year may be al- lowed. Ten percent of the net in f low of f u n ds in the p rev ious year may be invested on the stock exchanges of SADC member countries. The d e f in i t ion of ins t i tu t ional investor inc ludes the un it trust management company itself. In the past, it inc luded on ly the fund. The m in imum is 35% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes Du r ing 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 1. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, the BON p roh ib i ted f inan- cial transactions with the Taliban. Nonresident accounts February 28. Authorized dealers were allowed to release all blocked funds of emigrants that had been held in Nam ib ia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Nepalese rupee has been pegged to the Indian rupee at the rate of Nrs 1.6 per Re 1 since February 1993.The reference rate of the dollar quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) is based on the average of the quoted rate of commercial banks. Exchange rates of other major currencies are quoted on the basis of overseas markets. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, with quotations based on the buying and sell- ing rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal. All current transactions with member countries of the ACU other than India must be ef- fected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in dol- lars. Other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Effec- tive July 26, 2002, commercial banks are allowed to transact in renminbi with Chinese tourists. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Yes. Payments in convertible currencies may be made w i thout permission, subject to the proce- dures prescribed by the NRB. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. n.a. No. Persons who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an off ic ial source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonres iden ts may take out any unconverted foreign banknotes they brought in. 687 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 688 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted NEPAL Yes. Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may b r ing in foreign banknotes f ree ly but must declare amounts exceed ing the equ iv a l ent of $2,000. No l im it applies to Indian rupees. Resident Accounts Exporters are allowed to deposit up to 100% of export earnings in a foreign exchange ac- count to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from wo rk ing abroad (except in Bhu tan and Ind ia) for more than three months may open these accounts. Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in most of the freely usable currenc ies and are free to de term ine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Current accounts may be opened w i th a m i n im um equ iva lent to $500, and time deposits with a m in imum equ iv a l ent to $3,000. Banks are free to determine the m in imum balance on time deposits. Held domestically He ld abroad Yes. W i th p r ior approval, commercial banks may open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accoun ts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances in these accoun ts may be transferred abroad f ree ly. D ip loma ts and foreign nationals, except Ind ian nationals, are free to open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of c red it Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Open general l icenses Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Th i r ty - th ree i tems impo r ted from Ind ia requ i re payment in fore ign exchange. E f f e c t i ve J a n u a ry 25, 2002, banks are requ ired to obtain informa t ion regarding the business c r e d i b i l i ty of supp l i e rs before open ing LCs in excess of the equ iva lent of $50,000. E f f e c t ive J u ly 23, 2002, deferred-payment LCs of up to one year were allowed for imports of mach ine ry and raw material. Most impor ts are covered by OGLs. Imports of arms, ammun i t ion, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry require spec ial pe rm iss ion f rom the gove rnmen t. Yes. Quan t i ta t ive res t r ic t ions are in effect for the importation of poppy seeds. There are seven ta r i ff rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 40% in c lud ing two special rates of 80% and 130%). Most goods are sub ject to either the 15% or the 25% rate. Nepalese ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 689 c i t i z e ns r e t u r n i ng f rom abroad who have spent at least 15 n i g h ts out of the c o u n t ry are per- m i t ted to b r i ng in goods wo r th N rs 1,000 free of cu s toms d u t i es and sales taxes. C i t i z e ns w i th o f f i c i al sources of f o r e i gn ex ch ange e a rn ings and who have stayed abroad for one m o n th or more a re a l lowed a d d i t i o n al impo r ts w i t h o ut o f f i c i al d o c um e n t a t i o n. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requirements Surrender r equ i r em en ts F inanc ing requ irements Documentat ion requirements Letters of credit Guarantees D om i c i l i a t i on P r e s h i pm e nt i n s p e c t i on Export licenses W i th quo tas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds f rom expo r ts mu st be r ep a t r i a t ed w i t h in 180 days of r e c e ip t. Expo r te rs are a l- lowed to accept short paymen ts in expo rt proceeds if they do not exceed the e q u i v a l e nt of $500 or 1%, wh ichever is h igh e r. Approval by of the NRB is requ i red for amoun ts above the specified l im i t. Expo r te rs may r e t a in the export ea rn ings on t h e ir fo re ign cu r r en cy accoun ts w i th local bank s. Comme rc ial banks may g rant preexport cred i ts of up to 70% of the f.o.b. v a lue of p roduc ts to a ll i n d i v i d u a ls and i n s t i t u t i o ns h o l d i ng i r r evo c ab le LCs opened or endorsed by fo re ign b anks and accep tab le to the Nepa le se b ank s. Such c r e d it may be p r o v i d ed for a m a x im um of th ree mon th s; t h is pe r iod may be ex tended w i t h o ut p e n a l ty due to spec ial c i r c um s t a n c es beyond the con trol of the exporter. Exports to coun t r ies o ther th an I n d ia are a l lowed o n ly aga inst irrevocab le LCs or advance paymen ts by fo r e ign bank s. Export con s ignm en ts not exceed ing $50,000 or i ts e q u i v a l e nt may be unde r taken on the basis of a bank guaran tee. R e expo r t a t ion to I n d ia of non -Nepa le se goods and r e e x p o r t a t i on to any d e s t i n a t i on of goods impo r ted f rom I n d ia a re p r o h i b i t e d. P r e sh ipm ent in sp e c t ion is not compu l so ry. Exports of items h a v i ng archaeological and r e l i g i o us v a lu e, old co ins, na rco t ics, and exp lo- sive ma ter ia ls are p roh ib i ted. The export v o l ume of selected ready-made g a rm en ts to the Un i ted States is res t r ic ted by a quota system. Expo rt taxes are l ev i ed on 23 spec i f ic i tems and a 5% se rv ice charge —based on the f .o .b. v a l ue of the i tem in q u e s t i o n — is lev ied on a ll o ther expor ts. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Inv e s tm en t - r e l a t ed paymen ts Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Pe rsonal paymen ts Prior approval P r i or approval is r e q u i r ed in the case of p r iv a te sector loan amor t iza t ion. E f f e c t ive J u ly 23, 2002, NRB approval is no longer r equ i r ed for fo re ign inv e s to rs ope ra t ing in Nepal to repa- t r i a te p ro f i ts earned f rom t h e ir i n v e s tm e n t s. The l im it for t r av el to the Un i t ed States and wes te rn Eu rope is $2,000 or i ts e q u i v a l e nt and that for o ther c o u n t r i es is $ 1,000. P r ior approval of the gove rnment is requ i red for t rans fe rs related to med ical expenses and costs related to s tudy abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 690 NEPAL Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Yes. The use of credit cards abroad is allowed under specific guidelines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents may invest in equity shares of up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. No transactions have occurred as yet. Controls on credit operations Specified borrowers may borrow f rom abroad on the basis of gu ide l ines. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nepalese citizens, whe ther or not res id ing in Nepal, are not allowed to make any type of investment in foreign countries, except as spec if ica l ly permitted by government notice. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad NEPAL 691 exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. Investments require prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Department of In- dustry. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related in- dustries. Foreign investors may hold 100% equity in large- and medium-scale industries. Foreign securities firms are permitted to form jo int ventures with local state exchange members, but their ownership is limited to 40%. Controls are in effect based on the provisions of the Company Act. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The approval of the NRB is required. Effec t ive February 14, 2002, commercial banks may enter into interest rate swap arrangements with foreign banks and other financial entities without NRB approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exporters, tourism-related businesses, and specific industries are entitled to such credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No such transactions have occurred, Differential treatment is based on the type of currency, Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 26. Commercial banks were allowed to transact with Chinese tourists in Chinese currency. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 NEPAL Impor ts and import paymen ts January 25. Banks were requ i red to ob ta in informa t ion regarding the bus iness cred ib i l i ty of supp l ie rs before open ing LCs in excess of the equ iva lent of $50,000. July 23. LCs w i th deferred payments of up to one year were allowed for imports of ma- ch in e ry and raw ma ter ia ls. Payments for invisible t ransac t ions and cu r rent transfers July 23. NRB approval was no longer required for foreign investors operating in Nepal to repa tr ia te p ro f i ts earned from th e ir investments. Capital transac t ions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns February 14. NRB approval was no longer required for commercial banks to enter into in te rest rate swap arrangemen ts w i th foreign banks and other f inanc ial entities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of the Ne the r lands is the euro. Through January 28, 2002, however, the Neth- erlands gu i lder remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and Janua ry 28, 2002, both the gu i lder and the euro c ircu la ted. On January 29, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Ne the r lands participates in the EMU w i th 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Bel- g ium, F in land, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the guilder was set at f. 2.20371 per €1. The ECB has the r ight to in te rvene to smooth out f luc tua t ions in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transac t ion required. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance w i th the relevant UN Security Counc il reso lu t ions and/or EU regulations, measures have been taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. In comp l iance w i th the re levant UN Security Counc il reso lu t ions and/or EU regulations, certain restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq, Somalia (effective Janua ry 30, 2003), and the Taliban. (On December 20, 2002, the restrictions on transactions w i th the UNITA movemen ts in Angola were l if ted .) Payments and transfers to specific persons or entities of Myanmar or Zimbabwe and to specific individuals associated with the p rev ious government of the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia are restricted. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 693 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 694 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures NETHERLANDS Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In compliance with relevant UN Security Council resolutions and/or EU regulations, funds belonging to Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola (through December 19, 2002), and the Taliban are blocked. Funds belonging to specific persons or entities of Myanmar or Zim- babwe and specific individuals associated with the previous government of the former Re- public of Yugoslavia are also blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricul- tural, steel, and textile sectors, as well as for goods of unknown origin. Effective January 1, 2002, the number of import licenses for textile products was reduced. These apply to imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in some former state trad- ing countries. Effective March 29, 2002, tariff quotas were introduced on certain steel products in accordance with EU regulations. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to com- mon EU regulations. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 695 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. On resident assets and liabilities Integrated reports with nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies are required. On nonresident assets and liabilities Integrated reports with nonresident assets and liabilities are required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the guilder could be used for payments th rough January 28, 2002. January 29. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts December 20. The res t r ic t ions regarding transactions with the UNITA movement in Angola were l if ted (EC Resolution No. 146/2003). Imports and import payments January I. The number of import licenses for textile products was reduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 NETHERLANDS March 29. In accordance with EU regulations, tariff quotas were introduced on certain steel products. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 30. Res tr ic t ions were introduced on transactions w i th Somalia (EC Regulation No. 147/2003). Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position os of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Ne the r lands An t i l les is the Netherlands An t i l lean guilder. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions The gu i ld er is pegged to the dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The o f f ic ial se l l ing rate is NA f. 1.82 per $1. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are set da i ly on the basis of rates of the dollar abroad. There is no tax, but a license fee of 1% applies to all transfers to nonresidents. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where required. The Department of Fi- nance (DOF) issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may provide foreign exchange for all current transactions w i thout prior approval of the CB. Pu r suant to UN Secur i ty Counc il reso lu t ions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, Serbia and Montenegro, the Taliban, and ind iv idual groups and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is prohibited except for travel purposes. Non re s iden ts may take w i th them on departure any fore ign currency that they brought in. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident ind iv idua ls may hold these accounts w i thout a special license. Held domes t ica l ly Yes. Resident Accounts 697 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 698 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Transfers from a local bank account to foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 50,000 a quarter without prior CB approval. These accounts and all transfers from and to these ac- counts must be reported to the CB. No. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. In addition, these accounts may be funded only with foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Accounts may be converted into foreign currency but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Imports with delivery dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the CB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Imported goods are subject to tariffs and levies. Goods for which locally produced substi- tutes are available are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Cura9ao. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be re- ported to the CB. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart. Investment-related payments These transactions are subject to certain conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 699 Prior approval Companies must submit their financial statements to the CB for verification of the actual amount of prof i ts and dividends recorded before they may remit them. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Investments by residents in o f f ic ia l ly listed foreign securities (and in mu tual funds whose shares are listed) are permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, provided that these payments are effected through a local exchange bank. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On capital market securities There are licensing requirements for most capital market transactions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Credit operations require licenses, which are normally granted. Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents On ly short-term loans are permitted w i thout a license. To residents from nonresidents On ly short-term loans are permitted w i thout a license. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. A license is required if these transactions invo lve local currency. CB approval is required for the acqu is i t ion of more than 5% of shares in other companies. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Banks are not allowed to have negative net foreign asset positions. Any negative position is subject to penalty. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors L im i ts (min.) on inves tment portfolio he ld loca l ly The l im i ts are 40% for the first NA f. 10 m i l l ion, 50% for the next NA f. 10 million, and 60% for add i t ional amounts of the total provisions and l iab i l i t ies. Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies compos i t ion There must be s u f f i c i e nt assets in a particular currency to cover the l i ab i l i t i es in that cur- rency (currency exposure is not allowed). Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no secur i t ies law. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. New Zealand participates in PACER. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Measures have been taken to freeze the assets of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Coun- cil resolutions. Certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, and similarly with respect to the Serbia and Montenegro in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Restrictions with respect to the Serbia and Montenegro resolution have been suspended since December 1995 in cases in which it is clear that the assets, funds, and securities are not subject to any claim or interest on the part of the successor states of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia other than the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Certain restrictions on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Se- curity Council resolutions have been imposed with respect to the UNITA movement in Angola, to Libya, and to the Taliban. No. No. Under the Financial Transactions Reporting Act of 1996, exports and imports of banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeding $NZ 10,000 or its equivalent require customs docu- mentation (Border Cash Report). 701 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 702 NEW ZEALAND Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products — primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. For nonprimary produce, tar iffs apply to imported products that compete with New Zea- land's domestic production. All primary produce competing with New Zealand's domestic production is admitted free of tariff. Overall, 95% of imports (by value) are imported free of duty. Most tariffs are ad valorem, except for many clothing products, to which either an "alterna- tive specific" tariff of 19% or a corresponding alternative specific tar iff expressed in dollars per unit —whichever is higher —applies. Tariffs on most imports from nonpreferential sources are 6-8%. The only tar iffs over 15% apply to clothing (19%) and carpets and foot- wear (both 17.5%). Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SP ARTEC A agreements, imports from the participating countries enter New Zealand duty free, while Canada enjoys a margin of pref- erence. Eligible imports from developing countries are allocated tariff preferences, and the 48 least-developed countries are granted duty-free access for all products. Products im- ported from Singapore are exempted from customs tar iffs. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 703 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. For conservation reasons, there are also restrictions or prohibitions on exports of various animals and plants. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Under the Overseas Investment Regulations, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland," "land," "farmland" (from January 18, 2002), and fishing-quota investments, which apply both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled firms. Nonland in- vestments involving the acquisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand com- pany —and where the consideration exceeds $NZ 50 million or which involve the purchase of property costing more than $NZ 50 million, to be used in carrying on a business—are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceeding $NZ 50 million in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the pro- cedure is straightforward. Under the Fisheries Act, a nonresident must obtain either an ex- emption or a permission to acquire or to continue holding a fishing quota, an interest in quota, annual catch entitlement, or provisional catch history. Foreign ownership of Tele- com Corporation of New Zealand Limited is limited to 49.5%. Prior to January 18, 2002, foreign ownership of Air New Zealand was limited to 35%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents For foreign investment in certain types of land, the investor must undergo a bona fide test and the investment must be in the national interest. Authorization is required for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 NEW ZEALAND acqu is i t ions of the fo l low ing: land exceeding 5 hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 m i l l i o n; islands or land con ta in ing or ad jo in ing reserves, historic, or heri- tage areas; foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectare; and, effec t ive January 1, 2002, land con ta in ing or ad jo in ing foreshore in excess of 0.4 hectare. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment January 18. A separate authorization procedure for farmland investments came into effect. January 18. The l im it on foreign ownership in Air New Zealand (of 35%) was removed. Controls on real estate transactions January 2. Authorization was required for acquisitions of land containing or adjoining fore- shore in excess of 0.4 hectare. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 30, 1964. Currency The currency of Nicaragua is the cordoba. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax The exchange rate of the cordoba against the dollar is adjusted to depreciate 6% a year. There is no tax, but the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN) charges a commission of 1% on sales of foreign exchange. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts International loans may be settled in the lending country's currency or in any other currency required by the lender. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Yes. Regional arrangements Nicaragua is a member of the CACM. Administration of control Exchange operations between private agents are not restricted. The CBN allows the central government, authorized commercial banks, and exchange agencies to effect foreign ex- change transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Payments arrears are maintained with members of the Paris Club and non-Paris Club countries. The Ministry of Promotion, Industry, and Commerce (MIFIC) and the National Admini- stration of Geological Resources coordinate, manage, and supervise exploitation, produc- tion, and exportation of gold. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for nu- mismatic purposes only (commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, 1980, and 2001). Controls on external trade A permit f rom the MIFIC is required to export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 705 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 NICARAGUA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Conversion may be effected through transfer of funds into a foreign exchange account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs An import tariff regime applies that is in harmony with that of the CACM. The max imum tar iff rate, which applies to tobacco and certain alcoholic beverages, is 15%. An additional 35% import duty, a "sovereignty tax," is imposed on imports from Honduras and Colombia. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are not required, but all exports must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 707 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. For statistical purposes, commercial and financial credits to residents from nonresidents must be reported to the CBN within 30 days after being granted. Foreign exchange originating from new investments or additions to capital must be surren- dered to the CBN through commercial banks. However, as a result of the elimination of exchange controls, this regulation does not apply in practice. No. No. No. These instruments may only be issued by the CBN or the government. There are prudential limits. There are prudential limits established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the in terven t ion currency, at a f ixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on exchanges involving euros and a commission on purchases and sales of other currencies, the rate of which is freely determined. In addition, they levy a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services, and ma tur i t ies may not take place after the payment due date for the imports or exports in ques t ion. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Niger is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- men ts w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Opera- t ions Account coun try or any other currency stipulated in commercial contracts. Foreign currency accounts (FCAs) may be debited with domestic currency for the fo l low- ing transactions: cash purchases of foreign exchange, credit to another FCA, and payments to a resident. All other transactions through FCAs in domestic currency require prior BCEAO approval. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of fore ign exchange among residents Foreign exchange may be used among residents on ly in transactions between authorized dealers and the ir c l ien ts. Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements An Opera t ions Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count coun t r ies. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t im a t e ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. 708 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Clearing agreements Administration of control NIGER 709 A mu l t i la te ral c lea r ing agreement exists w i th in the WAEMU and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered j o i n t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to superv ise fo re ign exchange t ransac t ions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report those operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to requ ire p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF or the BCEAO invo lve residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, foreign exchange accounts held in curren- cies other than euros, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are re- qu i red for t rans fe rs of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a t rave le r. Travelers are allowed to export CFA franc banknotes w i th in the WAEMU. However, re- purchases by the BCEAO of exported bankno tes con t inue to be suspended. In addition, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondent banks located outside of the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexpo r ta t ion of fore ign bankno tes for amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Non res iden ts may b r ing in any amount of fore ign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and fo re ign currency trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and must surrender them w i th in eight days. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accoun ts with local banks or banks abroad after ob ta in ing au thor iza t ion from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Effective Ju ly 1, 2002, these accounts are va l id for one year and renewal requ ires an application to the MOF at least one month prior to exp ira t ion of the va l id i ty period. If no application is presented by the benefi- ciary, the account must be closed at the end of the va l id i ty period. Ind iv idua ls t rave l ing abroad may open bank accounts abroad to deposit foreign currencies lega l ly exported du r ing travel and income earned du r ing a stay abroad. Residents are re- qu i red to repatriate assets held in these accounts w i th in 30 days of the ir return. Foreign accounts of na t ional d ip loma t ic representatives are not subject to any restrictions. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 710 NIGER Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Effective July 1, 2002, these accounts are valid for two years. For renewal of these ac- counts, account holders are required to submit an application with proof of their position and actual residence within one month prior to expiration of the validity period. The BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU countries; therefore, these accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, French franc notes, or any other banknote issued by a central bank maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. These accounts may be free ly debited for the purchase of foreign currencies on the off ic ial market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire for- eign exchange until the scheduled date of the payment. Exchange authorization and invoices are required. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Goods exceeding CFAF 3 million f.o.b. require an inspection for quality and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Quantitative restrictions may be applied on products for public health and security reasons. Negative list Narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The due date of payment for exports must be within 120 days after the goods have been shipped. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchasing country, must be repatriated in their entirety through the BCEAO no later than 30 days from the date of receipt. The repatriation of proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries is not required. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Yes. No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 711 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Authorization is required for exports of gold. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Payments for inv is ib le transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted free ly. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents trave l ing as tour is ts or on business to franc zone countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion in cash in foreign currency. Any sum above this amount may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other payment instruments. Foreign currency is issued upon presentation to an authorized bank of a ticket and a valid passport or identity card. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 300,000 that they br ing in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Prior approval is required for payment of fam i ly maintenance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon the presentation of pay slips. Credit card use abroad Other payments Credit cards issued by res ident f inanc ial intermediaries or foreign financial institutions may be used abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU members, must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All investments abroad by residents requ ire prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the f inanc ing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Capital in f lows to WAEMU coun t r ies are un res t r ic ted. Capital transfers to all other coun tr ies re- q u i re MOF app rova l, but rece ip ts are f ree ly perm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 712 NIGER There are no con tro ls on foreign inves tmen ts in WAEMU countries or on capital outflows for repayment of loans, d is inves tment abroad, and option contract purchases. These opera- t ions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. P r ior au tho r iza t ion of the RCPSFM is requ ired for the issu ing and marke t ing of securities and real assets of fore ign en t i t ies, canvassing, or advertising investments abroad. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Pu rchase l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts These are subject to declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue lo c a l ly by nonres iden ts Residents may purchase securities sold or issued by nonresidents on ly after ob ta in ing the au tho r iza t ion of the RCPSFM. Pu rcha se abroad by res iden ts The p r ior au tho r i z a t ion of the MOF is requ i red for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell securities freely to nonresidents for disinvestment purposes, but the settlement by transfer abroad or by a credit to a nonresident's account requires an exchange license issued by the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing shares or other secu r i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. On money market in s t rumen ts The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On co l lec t ive inve s tment secu r i t ies The regu la t ions govern ing shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These i n s t r um e n ts are v i r t u a l ly unknown in Niger. However, ins trumen ts of th is type are governed by the ru l es and regu la t ions no rma l ly app l icab le to securities and direct invest- ments. Res iden ts are au tho r ized to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and secu r i t ies. Controls on credit operations Commerc ial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents Credits to nonresidents may be granted free ly for merchandise exports if the due date of payment is w i th in 120 days fo l low ing shipment of the goods; commercial credits for ser- vices may be granted free ly; no t ime l im it has been o f f i c i a l ly fixed for such payment. To residents from nonresidents There are no con t ro ls on the gran t ing of loans of th is type. Their repayment is, in general, authorized, subject to the submission of documents. F i n a n c i al c red i ts By residents to nonresidents The gran t ing of f inanc ial credit is subject to prior authorization of the MOF. For the trans- fer abroad of funds in th is context, a foreign exchange authorization must be submitted for clearance from the MOF, together with the necessary supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no con t ro ls, but funds requ i red to service these fac i l i t ies must be transferred th rough an authorized in termed iary. Gua ran tees, su re t ie s, and f i n a n c i al b a c k up f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing f inanc ial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward d i rect inve s tment There are no con tro ls, but the necessary funds must be transferred f rom abroad through an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct invest- ment company res ident in N iger and its parent company located abroad, the transactions are cons ide red d i rect inves tmen ts and r equ i re a p r ior declaration to the MOF. Pa r t ic ipa t ion in a company is considered direct investment if it exceeds 20%. Authorization from the MOF is no longer requ ired for investments consisting of the acquisition by resi- dents of securities, for wh ich the issue or marketing by nonresidents has been authorized in advance by the RCPSFM. At least 75% of such investments must be financed with borrow- ing from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 713 Inward direct investment Inward inves tment is subject to prior reporting to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion of a re s iden t 's inves tmen ts abroad must be reported to the MOF. Reinvest- ment of the proceeds of such l iqu id a t ions is subject to prior MOF authorization. If rein- vestment is not au thor ized, the proceeds must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized bank. There are no controls on the sale of foreign investment in Niger, but such operations must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct inves tment in a business, branch, or company are allowed w i th p r ior dec lara t ion to the MOF. Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Operations may be settled on ly a f ter the approval of the MOF. Fo l low ing settlement, the l iqu ida t ion or sale must be reported to the MOF and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents A declaration for statistical purposes and submission of a report to the MOF is required. G i f ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G i f ts and endowments are subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Inheritances and dow- ries are generally authorized. To residents from nonresidents These transac t ions are subject to dec lara t ion to the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have acquired resident status must first obtain authorization from the MOF to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These t ransac t ions are subject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad All borrowing abroad must be reported to the Directorate of External Finance for statistical purposes. Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad Banks and f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions may open accounts w i th correspondent banks but are not authorized to hold l iqu id assets, except to meet the needs of the ir current operations. Lend ing to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Pr ior MOF au tho r iza t ion is requ i red. Lending in foreign exchange by resident banks to resident individuals who are authorized to hold accounts in foreign exchange is subject to prior MOF authorization, after the con- sent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Credit controls Loans and other assistance granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 NIGER Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The regulations governing direct investment apply. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference of Insurance Markets (CIMA Code). Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Securities and mutual funds issued outside the WAEMU by a private or public entity that is not a resident of a member country may not be listed on a regional securities exchange. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The CIMA Code does not allow insurance companies to invest abroad. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA Code includes specific rules for the use of insurance companies' technical reserves. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The CIMA Code specifies that liabilities in a given currency must be covered by assets denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts July 1. Resident accounts in foreign exchange held domestically are valid for one year and renewal requires MOF approval. July 1. Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange are valid for two years and renewal re- quires approval from the BCEAO. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian naira. There are four exchange rates: (1) the official exchange rate, which results from auctions (Dutch) of foreign exchange by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); (2) the interbank mar- ket exchange rate (N iFEX ), at wh ich commercial banks transact among themselves; (3) the bureau de change rate; and (4) the parallel market rate. Dur ing 2002, the average prem ium of the latter three exchange rates over the CBN 's auction rate narrowed to 12.7% from 18.3% in 2001. The exchange of the na ira is determined in the in terbank foreign exchange market (IFEM) which is segmented into two submarkets: (1) the main market, in which legitimate users purchase foreign exchange from the CBN through banks bidding in the market, with re- quests having to be supported by the required documentation; and (2) the NIFEX market in which foreign exchange obtained from sources other than the CBN, including non-oil ex- ports and personal transfers is traded. The NIFEX rate is free ly negotiable among commer- cial banks, as well as among customers. Funds obtained from the CBN may not be trans- ferred through the N IFEX. E f fec t ive J u ly 22, 2002, the authorities adopted the Dutch auction system for selling o f f i- cial foreign exchange to users on the main market. The auction is a sealed bid-multiple price system with the marginal exchange rate being the rate that clears the market. Auctions take place twice a week; the CBN announces the amount on offer the day before the auc- tion, and the auction results the day after. Funds purchased from the CBN must be used for eligible transactions only, subject to stipulated documentation requirements. Such funds are not transferable in the IFEM. No. No. Forward exchange transactions in the interbank market are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and their customers, subject to prudential limits. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. Yes. Yes. The CBN fo rmu l a t es basic fo re ign exchange po l icy and issues d irec t ives as appropriate for the opera t ion of the in te rbank market. The CBN approves and revokes the appointments of au tho r ized dea le rs or authorized buyers of fore ign currency, and supervises and monitors the operation of the in te rbank market. International security restrictions No. 715 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 716 Payments arrears O f f ic ial NIGERIA An agreement has been reached w i th Paris c lub creditors to restructure Nigerian o f f ic ial ex ternal debt. Most of the arrears are owed to Paris Club bilateral creditors, but there are also small ar- rears to mu l t i l a t e r al and non-Paris C lub b i la teral creditors. Wh i le the arrears to Paris C lub creditors have been cleared under the rescheduling agreement, new arrears to Paris Club cred i tors accumu la ted by end-2002 as debt-service payments f e ll far short of the amount agreed to as part of the reschedu l ing operation. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Con tro ls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Res iden ts other than the monetary au thor i t ies, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not a l lowed, w i t h o ut special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry or co ins, at home or abroad. Con t ro ls on ex ternal trade The impo r ta t ion and exportation of gold in any form other than jewe l ry requ ire specific l icenses issued by the Federal M in is t ry of F inance (FMF). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Expo r ta t ion of amoun ts in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. The expor ta t ion of amoun ts in excess of $5,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Impor ta t ion of amoun ts in excess of N10,000 must be declared. The impor ta t ion of amoun ts in excess of $5,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. He ld domes t ica l ly Any person may open, ma in ta in, and operate a dom ic i l ia ry account designated in foreign currency w i th an au tho r ized dealer. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Convers ion is permitted on ly w i th respect to balances rema in ing af ter the completion of contracts or the account holders' business in Nigeria. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ex te rnal accoun ts are m a in t a in ed for d ip loma t ic representatives of all coun tr ies and interna- t ion al organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nige- ria to res iden ts of foreign coun tr ies, w i th payments from other external accounts, and w i th proceeds from sales of fore ign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Domestic currency accounts Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in non res ident accounts. Conv e r t ib le in to fo re ign cu r rency Non r e s id ent accoun ts may be credited w i th proceeds from services rendered locally, and rem i t tance can be effected subject to adequate documen ta t ion. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 717 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports E f fec t ive J u ly 18, 2002, the CBN is proh ib i ted f rom se l l ing fore ign exchange for imports of bo t t led wa ter, tobacco, and beer. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Un less a "clean report of f ind ings" has been issued on the goods to be imported, foreign exchange se t t lemen ts for imports may not be effected. Transactions invo lv ing the use of b i l ls for collection are allowed. Transactions executed on private sector initiative do not, however, carry any government guarantee or obligation. The remittances are to be made through the in terbank foreign exchange market or with autonomous funds, while the rele- vant sh ipp ing documen ts for the transactions are to be channeled through authorized dealers. All containerized imports, irrespective of the ir value, are subject to preshipment inspection. Importers are responsible for the payment of 1% of the f.o.b. value of goods as a service charge for the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme. Import payments covered by confirmed LCs are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the unders tand ing that the goods paid for w i ll arrive in N ige r ia and that all sh ipp ing documents are lodged by importers w i th the author- ized dealers w i th in 90 days of negotiation of the specified documents. The importation of gaming machines, gypsum, kao l in, mosquito repellent coils, retreaded or used tires, and secondhand clothing is prohibited. Effective April 20, 2002, imports of used air cond i t ioners, compressors, tex t i le materials con ta in ing hazardous chemicals (such as ch lo r ide ), re f r ige ra to rs, and veh ic les over f ive years old are p roh ib i ted. E f fec t ive J u ly 20, 2002, the importation of cassava, cassava products, and frozen poultry across land borders is prohibited. Effective October 3, 2002, imports of printed fabrics are temporarily suspended. Import du t ies range from zero to 150%, with most goods subject to rates between 5% and 100% (the 150% rate applies on ly to water). Over 190 produc ts carry ta r i f fs of 100% or h ighe r. The trade-we igh ted average has dec l ined to 17.4% in 2002 f rom 18.5 % in 2001 due to lower import tar iff protection. Tariff protection is h igh on finished goods. In addi- tion, the fo l low ing import surcharges apply: a 5% port development surcharge; a 1% Raw Ma ter ia ls and Deve lopment Counc il surcharge; a 0.02% f re ight rate stabilization surcharge earmarked for the N ig e r i an Shippers Coun c i l; and an ECOWAS levy of 0.5%. Certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. Imports that were duty free in the past are now subject to a du ty charge of at least 2.5%. Effective Apr il 10, 2002, an appropriate insurance certificate issued by any du ly registered insurance company in Nigeria is neces- sary for impo r t ing goods. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of shipment of the goods. Surrender requ i remen ts Non-o il exporters are permitted to sell the ir export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at interbank rates, or use the funds to f inance e l ig ib le transactions. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Payment for exports should be made w i th LCs or any other international mode of payment. Repatriated non-o il export proceeds and other in f lows should be held in dom ic i l iary ac- coun ts maintained w i th authorized dealers in N iger ia. Holders of the dom ic i l iary accounts have easy access to the ir funds ma in ta ined there in, subject to the ex is t ing gu ide l ines, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 NIGERIA Export licenses may sell the ir export proceeds to banks other than those where they maintain the ir domi- c i l iary accounts. Produc t ion of un re f ined gold and petroleum products is subject to licensing. The exporta- t ion of A f r ican an t iques, works of art, and objects used in Afr ican ceremonies is proh ib i ted, except under certain conditions. Exports of timber (rough and sawn), raw hides and skins, scrap metal, unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps, palm kernels, and yam tubers are prohibited. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corpora- tion and are subject to special arrangements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers App l ica t ions for foreign exchange must be subm i t ted to banks; such payments are allowed, subject to documen ta t ion requ iremen ts. Trade-related payments Quantitative limits The l im it for commissions is 2% on b i l ls for co l lec t ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Transfers of prof i ts are permitted f ree ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Prior approval Applications for the remittance of prof i ts and dividends from capital investment are made through authorized dealers and do not require prior approval, but are subject to documenta- t ion requirements. Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest on b i l ls for co l lec t ion transactions is subject to a max imum of 2% above the prime rate prevailing in the country of the beneficiary. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Up to 100% of net salary after tax may be transferred abroad, subject to documentation requirements. Other payments Up to 5% of consu l t ing and legal fees for projects of a high technological content, for wh ich local expertise is not available, may be remitted. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be received through banks. Surrender requirements All proceeds from oil companies are sold directly to banks, inc lud ing the CBN. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Applications for private capital transfers abroad are processed by banks, subject to satisfac- tory documentation. No prior approval is required, except in the case of the Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP). Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts These transac t ions may be conducted th rough authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 719 Purchase abroad by residents Residents of Nigeria may deal in foreign currency securities and may buy from, or sell to, nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without any prior approval. Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments The DCP regulates the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments (mainly CBN promissory notes arising from past consolidation of unsecured trade credit arrears) at a discount, and the disposition of the naira proceeds on the conversion of such debt. Purchase abroad by residents While documented investments are permitted, the transfer to external accounts is not. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents No. Yes. Permission of the FMF is not required for nonresident individuals or companies (other than banks) registered in Nigeria that are controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable companies to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facil- ity to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Approval is not required from the FMF for any individual, firm, company, or branch resi- dent in Nigeria to borrow abroad. However, official agencies and state-controlled corpora- tions need the prior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to ap- proval from the FMF. Controls on direct investment No. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment There are no ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission deals with all matters relating to registration and the prescription of applicable incentives for direct capital investment in priority areas. Approval of the FMF is not needed. Capital proceeds arising from the subsequent disposal of investments made under the DCP may only be repatriated 10 years after the effective investment of the proceeds, and is limited to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions should not exceed $500, or the equivalent, at a time. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 720 NIGERIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued secu r i t ies denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accoun ts in fore ign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements Reserve requ i remen ts are not computed on foreign exchange deposits. Liquid asset requirements L i q u id assets are not computed on foreign exchange deposits. Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks CBN approval is requ ired. In banks by nonresidents The in f low of funds is subject to the provisions of the Money Laundering Decree. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement July 22. An auc t ion (Du tch) system to determine the o f f ic ial exchange rate was adopted. Imports and import payments April 10. App rop r ia te in su r an ce certificates issued by du ly registered insurance companies in N ig e r ia a re r equ i r ed for imports. April 20. Imports of tex t i le materials containing hazardous chemicals (such as chloride); used refr igera tors, air cond i t ione rs, and compressors; and vehicles over f ive years were p roh ib i ted. July 18. The CBN was proh ib i ted from selling foreign exchange for imports of beer, bottled water, and tobacco. July 20. Impo r ts of cassava, cassava products, and frozen poultry across land borders were p roh ib i ted. October 3. Imports of printed fabrics were temporarily suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: May 1 1 , 1 9 6 7. Currency The cu r r en cy of No rway is the Norweg ian krone. Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the krone is determined on the basis of supp ly and demand. Monetary po l icy is anchored in accordance w i th an inf la t ion- targe t ing framework. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payments between res iden ts in fore ign currency may be effec ted on ly through transfers f rom the payer's to the payee's accoun t. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The Bank of Norway (BN) exercises con trol in cooperation w i th the MOF. International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Ex e cu t ive Board Dec is ion No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On February 27, 2002, the Norwegian au tho r i t i es no t i f ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accoun ts of the Taliban and of listed i n d i v i d u a ls and o rgan iza t ions associated w i th terror ism. These measures were taken in accordance w i th the re levant UN Security Counc il reso lu t ions. Restrictions are imposed on financial transactions w i th Iraq. Blocked accounts and restric- tions on f inanc ial transactions with respect to Serbia and Montenegro are limited to certain ind iv idua l s. No. No. A res ident or non re s ident who on en t ry in to or depar ture f rom Norway is carrying Norwe- gian and/or fore ign bankno tes and coins equ iv a l ent to more than NKr 25,000 a person a jou rn ey is obliged to n o t i fy the Customs Adm in is t ra t ion on the prescribed form. A re s ident or nonres ident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, cour ier, or o ther form of transport con t a in ing Norwegian and/or fore ign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equ iva lent to more than NKr 25,000, is ob l iged to n o t i fy the BN in w r i t i n g. 721 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 722 NORWAY Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. There is a notification and reporting requirement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the p rev ious 12 mon ths exceed NKr 100 m i l l ion. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad There is a no t i f ica t ion and reporting requirement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the prev ious 12 mon ths exceed NKr 100 m i l l ion. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The regu la t ions governing accounts in domestic currency he ld abroad apply. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quo tas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. In accordance with UN resolutions, it is prohibited to alter, transfer, or remove abroad any deposit made by Iraqi authorities, enterprises, or citizens. There are restrictions on deposits made in the country by certain citizens of Serbia and Montenegro. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. All imports from Iraq are prohibited, and there are restrictions on trade w i th and payments to or from certain citizens of Serbia and Montenegro. Restrictions on trade w i th Libya have been suspended. Yes. Yes. Certain measures are imposed for sanitary or phytosanitary reasons or in order to satisfy labeling requirements. Under the EEA agreement and other p re fe ren t ial agreements, most imports are not taxed. In general, tariffs on industrial goods are low, while tar iffs on agricultural products are higher. E f fec t ive Ju ly 1, 2002, all products f rom the least-developed countries may be imported du ty and ta r i ff free. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 723 Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions The BN has not issued any foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Effective March 6, 2002, collective investment schemes, insurance companies, and private funds are subject to nondiscriminatory limitations on exposure to derivatives. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The BN has not issued any foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward investment and establishment. This includes a gen- eral nondiscriminatory limitation on the ownership and holding of shares/securities of a participating nature in f inanc ial institutions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are limitations on nonresidents' purchases of houses for recreational purposes and on real estate in the agr icu l tural sector. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 724 NORWAY Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by non res iden ts Currency-matching regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition A bank 's ho ld ings of domestic and foreign shares may not exceed 4% of its total assets. There are nond i s c r im in a to ry l im i ta t ions on the ownership and holding of shares/securities of a participating nature in f inanc ial institutions. Credit ins t i tu t ions and investment firms are subject to exposure regulations. Net positions of up to 15% of i n s t i t u t i o n s' equ i ty and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in indi- v i d u al cu r renc ies, and the aggregate positions must be kept w i th in 30% of the financial in s t i tu t ion s' equ i ty and subordinated loan capital. Insurance companies and pension funds are subject to controls regarding classes of invest- men ts he ld against techn ical prov is ions to ensure a su f f ic ien t ly diversified portfolio (e.g., there is a comb ined cap of 35% on domestic and foreign shares). Effective Ju ly 8, 2002, co l lec t ive inves tment schemes are subject to limitations on investments, which are related to the place of listing. There are no currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for investment fund s. However, such regu la t ions exist for insurance companies and pension funds, for wh ich net f i n a n c i al assets in a given currency have to be equ iva lent to at least 80% of tech- n ical provisions in the same currency at any time. An insurance company cannot have nega t ive f i n a n c i al assets in a currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws Other con tro ls are inc luded in the Act on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Manage- men t, and, e f fec t ive J u ly 8, 2002, regu la t ions on insurance activities and pension funds. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 27. The Norwegian au tho r i t ies no t if ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terror- ism, in accordance w i th the re levant UN Secur i ty Counc il resolutions. Imports and import payments July I. All impor ts from the least-developed countries were permitted duty free. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other in s t rumen ts Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors March 6. Collective investment schemes, insurance companies, and private funds became sub ject to n o n d i s c r im i n a t o ry l im i t a t ions on exposure to derivatives. July 8. Collective investment schemes became subject to limitations on investments, which are related to the place of l i s t i n g. Other controls imposed by secu r i t ies laws July 8. New r egu l a t ions on inves tmen ts in derivatives by insurance companies and pension f u n ds were in t rodu c ed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the rial Omani is pegged to the dollar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The com- mercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. No. The Central Bank of Oman (CBO) has exclusive exchange control authority; there is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions Restrictions are imposed with respect to Israel. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Gold transactions with Israel are proh ib i ted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No d i s t in c t ion is made between accounts he ld by residents and those held by nonresidents. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad . Res iden ts are not allowed to ma in ta in domestic currency accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. 725 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 OMAN Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports. Companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products, as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Other nontariff measures All imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties range from 5% for most goods to 100% for alcoholic beverages. The cus- tom duty rate for luxury goods is 5%. Customs duties are not levied on imports from GCC countries or on government imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. Investment-related payments Prior approval Remittances of profits and dividends by commercial banks require prior approval from the CBO. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 727 Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign share ownership in Omani companies is generally limited to 49%, but it may be raised to 100%, and usually, this limit is set on a case-by-case basis. A nonresident portfo- lio investor may not hold more than 10% of the shares in an Omani company. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The Oman Deve lopment Bank may provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project f inanc ing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sec- tors; it may also give assistance in preinvestment research. In addition, the government provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects with an Omani ma jor i ty share- holding that are used for industrial production of exports that use indigenous raw materials or labor, or for the development of tourism. Inves tment in business firms in Oman by nonresidents requires prior approval. Foreign ownership is generally limited to 49%, but it may be raised to 100% in certain cases. No. Yes. Yes. No. Overall foreign borrowing by ind iv idual commercial banks is restricted to 300% of their net worth. Subce i l ings of 200% and 100% are applicable for foreign loans with ma tur i ty peri- ods of up to five years and up to two years, respectively. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is limited to 30% of the lending bank's net worth with a sublimit of 5% for an i n d i v i d u al nonresident borrower. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 40% of banks' capital and reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1994. Currency The currency of Pak is tan is the Pakistan rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations All current in te rna t ional transactions are conducted in the interbank exchange market. Ef- fec t ive J u ly 30, 2002, banks may purchase foreign exchange from exchange companies (ECs) at f ree ly negotiated rates. No new exchange licenses w i ll be issued to money chang- ers, and ex i s t ing money changers w i ll not be allowed to func t ion beyond June 30, 2004. No. No. The m a x im um term of forward cover provided by banks for trade transactions is 12 months, a l though th is may be rolled over; these fac i l i t ies are also provided for funds transferred from abroad for portfolio investment. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) provides forward cover for frozen foreign currency ac- counts (FCAs) and Na t ional Debt Re t irement Program, subject to an annual fee of 8% on onshore dollar deposits. For deposits made under FE Circular 45 of 1985, the forward cover fee is 5.5%. Effec t ive January 1, 2002, no forward cover is offered on new foreign currency deposits. E f fec t ive December 31, 2002, authorized dealers (ADs) may extend forward cover for less than one month for imports, exports, and foreign private loans. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic cu r rency Yes. For capital transactions Transactions in der iva t ives and other instruments Yes. Credit operations There are requ i remen ts for trade related ac t iv i t ies. Use of fore ign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Administration of control There are requ i remen ts for trade related activities, Pakistan is a member of the ACU. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU for current transactions are effected in AMUs, at the rate of AMU 1 per $1. Accounts are settled every two months. The SBP has delegated au tho r i ty to a number of banks and f inanc ial institutions to deal in all fore ign currencies and to sell or purchase foreign exchange w i th in l im i ts prescribed by the SBP for d i f f e r ent transactions. Banks are allowed to prov ide foreign exchange in excess of the prescribed l im it for bona f ide requ iremen ts. In add i t ion, the SBP issues licenses to ECs for the sale and purchase of foreign currency in cash and for other business remittances. 728 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 729 International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Pak is tan applies res t r ic t ions on Serbia and Montenegro. Yes. No. There is no con trol on local trade in gold b u l l i o n, There are no restrictions on exports. Imports may be effected through dealers authorized by the government on ly. An ind iv idual may take out up to PRs 500 to India and PRs 3,000 to other countries. Exports of foreign currency in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent require permission. Ef- fec t ive December 3, 2002, exports exceeding $10,000 or PRs 3,000 to Afghanistan may be effected by international organizations, subject to certain terms and conditions. Domestic currency An i n d i v i d u al may b r i ng in up to PRs 500 from Ind ia and PRs 3,000 from other countries. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks and nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to offer a new foreign currency ac- count FCA scheme. Resident Accounts Held domestically He ld abroad Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase special dollar bonds of the gov- ernment of Pakistan against the ou ts tand ing balances in the ir FCAs or to convert the for- eign currency in to Pakistan rupees at the preva i l ing exchange rate. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, and for- eign currency notes. However, receipts f rom exports of goods and services, earnings from services of residents, earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan firms or companies and banks, and foreign exchange released f rom Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. FCAs maintained by resident corporate bodies or legal en t i t ies may not be credited with foreign currency purchased in the kerb market. These accounts may be permanently retained, and an upper ceiling on the interest rate on term depos i ts is f ixed by the SBP (prior to Ju ly 1, 2002, the rates were based on the eurodo l lar deposit bid rate of Barclays Bank, London, and the margins over the eurodollar deposit bid rates ranged from 0.75% for three-month deposits to 2% for five-year deposits. Under the new FCA scheme, in s t i tu t ions are free to keep or invest the ir deposits abroad or in Pak is tan. To lend these deposit funds to borrowers in Pakistan for trade-related activities, ADs are requ i red to observe p ruden t ial regu la t ions of the SBP. ADs are free to decide the rate of re turn that they o f fer to depositors (p r ior to Ju ly 1, 2002, the rate of return could not exceed LIBOR). Balances of up to the equ iva lent of $ 1,000 may be held abroad by residents in any coun try (except the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, and Israel) in FCAs, which may not be used for opera t ions from Pakistan w i thout the approval of the SBP. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 730 PAKISTAN Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Pakistan nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Paki- stan; and firms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible; and diplomatic missions and the staff of international organizations may open FCAs and transact freely with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the SBP. ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors. Deposit holders wish- ing to make payments in Pakistan in Pakistan rupees must first convert the foreign ex- change drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistan nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently, and there is no ceil- ing on interest rates on these accounts (prior to Ju ly 1, 2002, the rate of interest on these accounts could not exceed 1% over LIBOR). There are no restrictions on the opening of FCAs by diplomatic missions or by staff of international organizations. Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase dollar bonds of the government of Pakistan against outstanding balances in their FCAs. Funds mobilized under the new FCA scheme are not required to be surrendered to the SBP nor does the SBP provide forward cover in respect of such accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts. Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of individu- als, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for non- bank nonresidents without prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remit- tance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without prior approval. Effective March 17, 2003, foreign shipping companies and airlines with offices or agents in Pakistan may open and operate interest-bearing rupee accounts, provided that the profits from the interest are used to meet local expenses. Domestic currency accounts are convertible into foreign currency when opened as con- vertible rupee accounts with funds received from abroad. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its per- sonnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Advance payments of up to 33.33% are allowed when the goods are of a specialized or capital nature. Payments exceeding this limit require SBP approval. Clean-on-board shipped bills of lading and other documentation as stipulated by contracts or LCs are required. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required. Positive list Negative list A positive list is maintained in respect of imports from India. Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons, and goods banned under international agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 731 Other non ta r i ff measures Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of 35 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Imports of 17 items on the procedural list require certain technical expertise (e.g., petroleum) or certain conditions (e.g., unassembled cars). Import taxes and/or tariffs E f fec t ive J u ly 1, 2002, the max imum customs tar iff is 25% (previously, 30%), except for beverages, spirits, vinegar, and motor vehicles. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated by the due dates of b i l ls of exchange or within six months of shipment, whichever is earlier. Export proceeds may be held in a special exporter's account for up to three working days for the purpose of sale to an AD only. Exporters are permitted to sell their entire proceeds in the intrabank market within three days. Exporters may retain up to 6% of the f.o.b. value in the ir FCA for promotional pub- licity, purchases of designs and patterns, market studies, bona fide export claims, and to cover export proceeds w i thout approval from the SBP. For software and service sector exports, th is l im it is 35%. Exporters recording more than 10% in export earnings may keep 50% of the additional earned amount in FCAs. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order and form E. Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Export licenses are not required. An export development surcharge of 0.25% is levied on all exports, except for a few speci- fied items. E f fec t ive January 4, 2003, th is amount is to be paid to the SBP or an authorized bank when the export proceeds are realized (previously, this was collected by customs upon shipment). The standard rates of income tax on export proceeds are 0.75% and 1.25%. There are re- duced rates of 1% for exports of goods manu fac tu red in Pakistan. The rate of 0.75% ap- plies to exports of bed l inen; blankets; ceramics; cutlery; engineering goods; handmade carpets and rugs; ho r t icu l tu ral products; jewelry; leather and textile products; pharmaceuti- cal products; surgical equipment; sporting goods; and wooden furniture, doors, and windows. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Effective December 23, 2002, ADs may issue foreign currency-denominated traveler's checks for any purpose, provided they are paid for with an equ iva lent amount of foreign currency. Trade-related payments There is no restriction on the payment of f re ight against invoices. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Commissions, brokerage fees, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice va lues. A rate of 1% applies for cement, and h igher rates apply for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are ind ica t ive l im i ts or bona f ide tests for the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments The remittance of d iv idends declared on current profits may be made free ly to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of prof i ts by branches of foreign companies —other than banks and those engaged in insurance, ship- p ing, and the a i r l i ne business —and of d iv idends to foreign por tfo l io investors credited to th e ir conver t ib le rupee accounts is permitted w i thout res tr ic t ion, provided that the required documen ts are subm i t ted to the SBP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 PAKISTAN Prior approval Quantitative limits On October 3, 2002, remittances of royalty, franch ise, and technical fees or service charges in the f inanc ial sector were allowed. Prior approval is required for the transfer of prof i ts on ly by the branches of foreign compa- nies and banks. Interest payments are allowed up to 1.5% over LIBOR. However, there is no limit on inter- est with respect to project loans. The payment of interest is permitted under imports only on a usance basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative l im i ts or bona fide tests for the payment of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Cred it card use abroad Yes. The prescribed l im it is $50 or its equ iva lent a person a day up to a max imum of $2,100 a calendar year. However, ADs may provide add i t ional travel allowances in bona fide cases. Foreign exchange allowances for s tuden ts' tu i t ion fees and expenses, as required by ins t i tu- tions, may be obtained from ADs w i thout approval from the SBP. Effec t ive November 14, 2002, remittances of premiums on all types of l i fe insurance policies were allowed up to PRs 350,000. On January 21, 2003, th is l im it was removed. For medical costs, approval is required and is granted on a case-by-case basis. Allowances for professional tra in ing abroad are granted at the equivalent of $1,200 a month. For f am i ly maintenance and alimony payments, allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test L im i ts are set by the banks w i thout reference to the SBP. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There is no l im it for ind iv idua ls with regard to subscriptions and membership fees. For professional and specialized organizations, the limit is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. Prior approval is required for the payment of consu l t ing and legal fees. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds of fore ign exchange earn ings must be sold to an AD. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Pak is tani residents, in c lud ing firms and companies, may make equity-based investments, i n c l u d i ng po r t fo l io investments, in companies abroad (i.e., jo int ventures) on a repatriable basis. P r ior SBP permission is requ ired, however. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts There are no con tro ls on the sale of secur i t ies purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, how- ever, are not permitted to issue secur i t ies in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by res iden ts P r ior SBP approval is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 733 Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by non re s iden ts Residents may sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Securities and Ex- change Commission of Pakistan (SECP). The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of p lan ts and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds requ i red to service these secur i t ies issues is permitted. Non re s iden ts are allowed to trade free ly in registered corporate debt instruments and bonds listed on the stock exchange, in federal investment bonds (FIBs), Pakistan investment bonds (PIBs), and in market treasury b i l ls (MTBs). Foreign bank branches in Pakistan and foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to make investments in registered, listed corporate debt instruments in the primary and secondary markets. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Spec if ic permission is requ i red, which is granted if the proceeds of the bonds are to be used for the import of p lan ts and machinery. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase of certificates of investment (COIs), PIBs, MTBs, and term f inance certificates (TFCs) by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the sale of COIs, MTBs, or TFCs purchased in Pakistan. However, nonres iden ts are not permitted to issue such ins trumen ts in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the SECP. The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these secur i t ies issues is permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase units of the National Investment Trust, the State Enterprise Mutual Fund of the Investment Corporation of Pakistan, and other mu tual funds listed on the Pakistan stock exchanges. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents may sell or issue securities after ob ta in ing approval from the SECP. The pro- ceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only rights shares exist. There are no other derivatives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted, except for rights shares. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions are not permitted. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits of up to six mon ths are permitted w i th respect to exported goods, and up to 12!/2 years with respect to the export of p lan ts and machinery. To residents from nonresidents Res iden ts have been granted general permission with certain conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 734 Financial credits PAKISTAN By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities There are no controls on these payments; however, parent companies of mu l t ina t iona ls are also permitted to provide loans for financing the foreign currency cost of projects, as well as working capital requirements. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are allowed w i th certain controls. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to compliance w i th other credit controls. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires prior approval under foreign exchange laws. Resident Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or immovable as- sets held abroad, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal bank ing channels. Pakistan residents, inc lud ing firms and companies, may make equity- based investments, inc lud ing portfolio investments, in companies abroad (i.e., jo int ven- tures) on a repatriable basis. Prior SBP permission is required, however. Prior approval is not required for investment in the manu fac tu r ing and services sectors. Foreign investors are allowed to hold equity up to 100% in new industrial units. Investment in arms and ammunitions, security printing, currency and minting, high explosives, and radioactive substances requires prior approval. Investment in the production of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. Foreigners are permitted to make investments in services, infra- structure, social, and agricultural sectors, subject to the condition that the foreign equity investment be at least $300,000 or the equivalent. Foreign investors may hold 100% equity in social and infras truc ture sectors. In the case of the services sector, they may hold 100% of equ i ty for five years, subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) remittances of profits and dividends are restricted to 60% of total equity during the five-year period; and (2) a mini- mum of 40% of the equ i ty must be transferred to Pakistani investors w i th in a period of five years, inc lud ing disinvestment through the stock exchange. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Sale locally by nonresidents Sales of real estate by nonresidents engaged in real estate businesses are permitted. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Up to PRs 500 is permitted. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittance is not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to borrow locally for the ir working capi- tal requirements of up to 100% of their paid capital, reserves, etc., subject to observance of all other nonbank financial institutions' rules. Effective March 2, 2002, all banks are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 735 Borrowing abroad required to maintain domestically not less than 80% (previously 85%) of their assets against time and demand liabilities as specified in Part A of Form X, as prescribed in Rule 17 of the Banking Companies Rules of 1963. Transactions are allowed for temporary periods, and only if they become necessary for the normal course of business. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are no locally issued foreign currency certificates. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds in Pakistan freely. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. Reserve requirements Banks are required to maintain separate dollar cash reserves with the SBP against foreign currency deposits. The requirements are 5% in a nonremunerated cash reserve account and 15% in a special cash remunerative account, the rate of which is announced monthly. Ru- pee deposits are subject to a 15% reserve requirement, which must be held in approved securities. Liquid asset requirements In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds in Pakistan freely. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Prior approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits There is an aggregate foreign exchange exposure limit for each bank equivalent to 10% of its paid-up capital, with maximum and minimum limits of PRs 500 million and PRs 50 million, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to issue securities in Pakistan, and residents require specific permission to make portfolio investments abroad. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2002 January 1. The official forward cover of foreign currency deposits under FE Circular 31 of 1998 was discontinued. July 30. A new regulation creating ECs came into force. Banks were allowed to purchase foreign exchange from ECs at freely negotiated rates, and moneychangers were given until June 30, 2004, to convert to ECs or be closed. December 31. ADs are allowed to extend forward cover for less than one month for im- ports, exports, and foreign private loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 736 PAKISTAN Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts December 3. NGOs and UN welfare organizations were allowed to transfer foreign cur- rency in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 or PRs 3,000 from Pakistan to Afghanistan, subject to certain terms and conditions. July 1. The l im i ts on interest rates for FCAs were eliminated. Previously, the rates could not exceed 0.75% of the eurodollar deposit bid rate of Barclay's Bank, London, for three- month deposits, or 2% for five-year deposits. Further, the rate for lending these deposit funds to domestic borrowers could not exceed LIBOR. Nonresident accounts July 1. The l im it on interest rates for FCAs for nonresidents was eliminated. Previously, the interest rate could not exceed 1 % over LIBOR. Imports and import payments July 1. The max imum customs ta r i f f, except for motor vehicles, beverages, spirits, and vinegar, was reduced to 25% from 30%. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers October 3. Remittances of royalty, franchise and technical fees or service charges in the f inanc ial sector were allowed. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions November 14. A l lowab le remittances of insurance p rem ium on all types of insurance poli- cies were raised to a maximum of PRs 350,000. December 23. ADs were allowed to issue traveler's check in foreign exchange for any pur- pose against an equ iva lent amount of foreign currency. March 2. All banks were requ ired to ma in ta in domestically not less than 80% (previously 85%) of their assets against time and demand liabilities as specified in Part A of Form X, as prescribed in Ru le 17 of the Bank ing Companies Rules of 1963. Changes During 2003 Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds March 17. Foreign sh ipp ing companies and a i r l ines operating in Pakistan were allowed to open and maintain interest-bearing accounts, provided that the prof it is used only for pay- ment of local expenses. January 4. The export development surcharge must to be paid to the SBP or an authorized bank once the export proceeds have been realized (SRO 10(1)72003). Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 21. Un l im i ted remittances of premiums on all types of l ife insurance policies were allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: December 16, 1997. Currency The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The currency of Pa lau is the U.S. dollar, which circulates free ly, Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of cu r rency requ iremen ts Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control In te rna t ional security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of bankno tes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Pa lau participates in PACER and PICTA. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted n . r. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accoun ts permitted Domestic cu r rency accoun ts n.a. n .r. No. No. Nonresident Accounts 737 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 738 PALAU Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of controlled substances, guns, ammunition, nonquarantined fruits, live plants, and animals is restricted. The tariff for general imports is 3%; government, personal, medical, and food imports are exempted. The tariff for cigarettes is $0.50 per 20, and for tobacco it is 150% ad valorem. Cosmetics and to i le tr ies have a tar iff of 25%; carbonated soft drinks, $0.10 per 12 ounces; beer, $0.03 per ounce; liquor, $0.30 per ounce; wine, $0.20 per ounce; wine coolers, $0.05 per ounce; liquid fue l, $0.05 per gallon; and vehicles, 5% ad valorem plus $250. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. No. Yes. Export taxes are levied on fish at $0.25 per kilo. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU 739 Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Palau National Code restricts foreign direct investment without local ownership. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents According to the constitution, only citizens of Palau and corporations wholly owned by citizens of Palau may acquire title to land or waters in Palau. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Specific provisions apply only to the Palau National Development Bank, which is not in- volved in commercial banking. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 26, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Panama is the Panamanian balboa. It is the un it of account and is limited to coins. Other legal tender The dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The cu r rency of Panama is pegged to the do l lar at the rate of B 1 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No. No. No. No. No. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers require a license if effected by residents other than the monetary authorities. Ex- ports of unwo rked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, wh ich are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 740 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 741 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. For rice products, pork meat, poultry meat, and tomato paste and puree, a contingent mechanism exists that was negotiated under the WTO agreement to facilitate the exchange of permits, thereby a l low ing imports of these products at preferential tariff rates. All tariff rates are calculated on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Trade reform has resulted in simplified tariff bands of zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. The exceptions to the maximum tariff of 15% are automobiles (17%) and sugar (50% on imports exceeding a historical average price range). Also included are several other products (mainly foodstuffs) whose tariffs are the maximum (and declining) levels negoti- ated w i th the WTO, inc lud ing dairy products (90-173%); rice (130%); onions (90%); beef (40%); pork (70-90%); boneless and whole hams (83%); some poultry (300%); cabbages, carrots, celery, and lettuce (32.5%); cooking oils (20-30%); margarine (20%); salt (87%); ketchup (70%); and tomato paste and puree (87%). All imports into the area designated as the Colon free zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of certain drugs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited or restricted. Any prod- uct ( in c lud ing raw ma ter ia ls and machinery) may be imported into the Colon free zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported without being subject to customs procedures. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain nontraditional exports (with a m in imum local cost-of-production content of 20%) are e l ig ib le for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20% of value added. Export-processing zones are exempt from all taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 742 PANAMA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Papua New Gu inea is the Papua New Gu inea kina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the kina is determined freely in the interbank market in which author- ized banks participate. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange deal- ers, pub l ish rates for all current transactions with their customers w i th in a maximum spread of 2% between the buying and selling rates. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover with the commercial banks at market-determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its un- covered forward position. Off ic ial cover of forward operations The Bank of Papua New Gu inea (BPNG) may intervene in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Residents may not use foreign exchange for any domestic transactions. Papua New Guinea participates in the following arrangements: the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Foreign exchange control is administered by the BPNG under the Central Banking Act. Overall policy is determined by the government with the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Gu inea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 743 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 744 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in their respective m in ing agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, spec if ic export licenses are required from the BPNG. Travelers w ish ing to take out domestic currency in excess of K 200 in banknotes or K 5 in coins and domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes must obtain approval from the BPNG. Foreign currency Visitors are free to take out any amount of currency they brought in and declared on arrival. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Resident business en t i t ies are requ i red to obtain BPNG approval, except for term deposits placed for a m in imum of 90 days. He ld abroad These accoun ts may be he ld abroad, but BPNG approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Approval from an authorized dealer (AD) or the BPNG is required where applicable. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted but BPNG approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible in to foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval from an AD or the BPNG is required where applicable. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports ADs may approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or li- censing requ i remen ts w i thout re fe r r ing to the BPNG. Payments for import transactions exceed ing K 5,000 requ i re sh ipp ing documents, a copy of the customs forms, and commer- cial invoices. Letters of cred it Issuance by ADs is sub ject to BPNG approval. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Imports of a l im i t ed number of goods are restricted for reasons of hea l th and security, wh i le o th e r s — in c lud ing sugar, pou l t ry, and pork —are p roh ib i ted to protect domestic markets. Impor ts of most fresh f r u i ts and vegetables are banned (except for apples, onions, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs PAPUA NEW GUINEA 745 potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50% tariff rate. Yes. Yes. The import tar iff regime consists of the fo l low ing rates: (1) zero for essential items (includ- ing food staples such as rice and meat not produced domestically); (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods ( in c lud ing some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for intermediate goods; (4) 55% for luxu ry goods; (5) 15% or 100% for selected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as t inned mackerel and citrus fruits; and (6) 85% for sugar. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements The re ten t ion period for export proceeds is six months. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export proceeds must be sold to an AD. No. Customs forms must be submitted to the BPNG or an AD af ter each shipment or subject to request. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Other export taxes When exporters cannot comply w i th the conditions of the general authority, they must ap- ply to the BPNG for specific authorization. Licenses are required for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, wood chips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued based on minimum export price guidelines. Although exports of unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except for levies on fish (10%) and logs (15% to 70%). Export levies also apply to forestry produc ts. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval ADs may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for all adult ind iv idua ls and corporations with supporting documentation. (For amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required .) Payments and transfers in excess of th is amount must be referred to the BPNG. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions on dividend and interest payments provided companies submit f inanc ial statements and clearance certificates. Payments for the se rv ic ing of foreign debt requ ire approval from the BPNG or an AD. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 746 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be converted into domestic currency upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds Approval is required for use of foreign currency proceeds, other than those sold to an AD in Papua New Guinea. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Although there are no controls on inward portfolio investment, large amounts must be re- ported to the BPNG. ADs may approve outward investments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year; investments in excess of this limit require the approval of the BPNG. Income from these investments must be repatriated to Papua New Guinea as soon as it is received. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is re- quired for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 747 Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Permission is required for these credits; however, ADs may approve amounts up to the equivalent of K 5 m i l l ion from offshore sources and lend to residents for businesses not involved in the forestry sector (logging) or mineral and gas sectors provided that the term is for a minimum of one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels accept- able to the BPNG. Repayment of the principal is subject to a six-month moratorium, com- mencing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to borrowing by companies other than those in the forestry, mining, petroleum, and gas sec- tors. In the case of a business involved in resources exploration activities, inward invest- ment is considered non-interest bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) un t il exploration reaches commercial development stage, at which time any excess above the 5:1 equity-to-debt ratio must be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The transfer of proceeds requires BPNG approval. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transac t ions are subject to BPNG approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 748 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io he ld abroad L im i ts (min.) on investment por tfo l io he ld locally Currency-ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities denominated in foreign exchange may not be issued locally. Foreign currency exposure limits against capital are 15% of a bank's total position and 10% of a single currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2002 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: August 23, 1994. Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan guarani. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The au thor i t ies manage the exchange rate in order to maintain the value of the guarani in real effective terms. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Payments between Paraguay and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) and other central banks that partici- pate in the multilateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payments arrears O f f ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade The CBP has the authority to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other agencies of the government. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the CBP, which is responsible for implementing its decisions. The CBP su- pervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange bureaus. The CBP regulates open foreign exchange positions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The importation or exportation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry requires prior authorization by the CBP. Payments for gold imports by indus tr ial users must be made through commercial banks. 749 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 750 PARAGUAY Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Banks and exchange bureaus must no t i fy the Superintendency of Banks at least two days prior to importing or exporting foreign currency. On imports Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection All products must be inspected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports are subject to declaration w i th the exception of equ ipment and supplies for national security. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of certain products that may be ha rm ful to pub l ic health, national security, or ani- mal or plant health are prohibited. However, these restrictions may be waived to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Paraguay, as a member of MERCOSUR, applies its GET, which is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay also has over 1,500 exemptions to the GET, many of which are to be phased out by 2006. Many of these are for computer goods (1,153 items); tele- communications (453 items); and processed foods, textiles, clothing, and shoes. Imports of pe tro leum, oil, and some m i l i ta ry equipment and supplies are effected by the state agencies. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 751 Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, raw hides, and wild animals are prohib- ited. In addition, certain exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. No other exports are restricted, however, technical standards are imposed by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the product exported. Exports of wood and wood products of certain trees are subject to quotas because of risk of depletion. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Financial enterprises require prior authorization from the CBP to transfer earnings. All transfers of earnings from financial investments are subject to a 5% income tax. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles, except for royalties and remuneration from the binational entities administering the Itaipu and Yacyreta dams, which are transferred in fu ll to the CBP for the account of the MOF. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Yes. No. Nonresidents may purchase foreign exchange forward, up to one year, exclusively for op- erations relating to trade. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 PARAGUAY Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions require notification to the Superintendency of Banks. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accoun ts ma in ta ined abroad are subject to diversification requirements imposed on the depository banks and may not exceed 20% of the local bank's net worth. This limit may be extended to up to 70% of the bank's net worth in the case of tier-I banks. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) These credits may not exceed 5% of the bank 's net worth. Subject to approval of a guaran- tee by the Super in tendency of Banks, this limit may be increased up to a maximum of 20%. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Reserves on fo re ign exchange deposits should be maintained in foreign currency. The re- quired ratios vary according to the maturity of deposits. The reserve requirements are, ef- fective November 7, 2002, 26.5% for foreign currency deposits with maturities of up to 360 days and e f fec t ive September 16, 2002, 15% for domestic currency deposits with ma- tu r i t i es of up to 180 days. (P rev ious ly, effec t ive Ju ly 25, 2002, the reserve requirements for foreign cu r rency deposits were increased to 28.5% from 27%, and those on domestic cur- rency deposits were increased to 20% from 15%.) These investments are subject to solvency and capital requirements, as stipulated in Law no. 861/1996. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Effec t ive August 1, 2002, the max imum daily long and short foreign exchange positions for foreign exchange entities were reduced to 4% from 12% and 7%, respectively, of total risk- weighted assets, excluding treasury bonds denominated in foreign exchange and contingent claims at the end of the previous month. In addition to this limit, the long and short forward pos i t ions may not exceed 0.5% of a f inanc ial entity's weighted assets and contingent c la ims. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Changes During 2002 July 25. The reserve requ irement for foreign exchange deposits with maturities of up to 360 days was increased to 28.5% from 27% and for local currency deposits with maturities of up to 180 days was increased to 20% from 15%. August 1. The max imum daily long and short foreign exchange positions were reduced to 4% from 12% and 7%, respectively. September 16. The reserve requ i rement for local currency deposits with maturities of up to 180 days was decreased to 15% from 20%. November 7. The reserve requ i rement for foreign exchange deposits with maturities of up to 360 days was decreased to 26.5% f rom 28.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Peru is the Peruv ian nuevo sol. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined by supp ly and demand conditions. How- ever, the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) may in tervene in the foreign exchange market at its discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate; effective Au- gust 28, 2002, intervention may be effected through bonds indexed on the exchange rate. Exchange rates of currencies other than the dollar are determined against their cross-rate re la t ionsh ips w i th the do l lar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Effec t ive August 28, 2002, the CRBP issues bonds indexed on the exchange rate denomi- nated in local currency as a hedging ins trument for forward sales of dollars. The use of this instrument is limited to cases of unusual volatility in the spot exchange rate. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Peru and the other LAIA coun tr ies may be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the CRBP and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. By law, there are no restrictions on exchange transactions, including holding, using, pur- chasing, or se l l ing of foreign exchange. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Small amounts of outstanding arrears are owed primarily for unguaranteed suppliers' cred- its, most of wh ich are under nego t ia t ion w i th the government of Peru; the remainder is yet to be located. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. 753 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 754 PERU Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Imports may be prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Prior to March 16, 2002, there were four basic tariff rates —zero, 4%, 12%, and 20% —with a trade-weighted average of 11.9%. Effective this date, the 12% rate was reduced to 7% (applying to 1,560 items of capital goods), bringing the trade-weighted average to 10.7%, and a new zero-tariff grouping was introduced consolidating the existing zero-tariff regimes and special trade arrangements in accordance with a harmonized system proposed by the Customs Cooperation Council. On April 10, 2002, a temporary surcharge of 5% was intro- duced on the items to which the 7% rate applies. On September 5, 2002, the 7% rate was reduced to 4% (applying to 178 items of capital goods). Effec t ive September 7, 2002, the reference pricing system that is aimed at protecting local products of corn, rice, and sugar was modified, whereby dairy products were added to the list and the floor price on sugar was increased by 44%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 755 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits granted by resident financial institutions to nonresident financial institutions and to individuals or enterprises (residents or nonresidents) are subject to prudential limits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors As a measure of monetary control, there is a difference between the treatment of deposit accounts in domestic currency and deposit accounts in foreign currency, but there is no discrimination between residents and nonresidents. Deposit accounts in foreign currency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 20%, compared with a reserve requirement of 6% for accounts in domestic currency. The CRBP remunerates the part of the reserve requirement that exceeds the obligatory minimal reserve requirement in foreign currency with the three-month LIBOR rate minus 0.125%. As a measure of prudential regulations, a liquid asset requirement as a percentage of short- term liabilities (20% in foreign currency and 8% in domestic currency) is used. There is a prudential limit of 100% of the net worth over the long foreign exchange posi- tion and a limit of 2.5% over the short foreign exchange position of financial institutions. The securities market in Peru is open to foreign investors. No legal restrictions exist on the purchase or sale of domestic securities by nonresidents or on the purchase or sale of foreign securities by residents. Revenues may be repatriated without restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 PERU L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Pension funds may invest up to 10% of the ir portfolio in foreign securities issued by nonresidents. L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io held abroad Pension funds may invest up to 10% of their portfolio in foreign securities issued by nonres iden ts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Changes During 2002 August 28. The CRBP began to issue bonds indexed on the exchange rate denominated in local currency as a mechanism for intervening in the exchange market and as a hedging in s t rument for forward sales of dollars. March 16. The tariff rates were adjusted to zero, 4%, 7%, and 20% from zero, 4%, 12%, and 20%. At the same time, a new zero-tariff grouping was introduced consolidating the ex i s t ing zero-tariff regimes and special trade arrangements in accordance with a harmo- nized system proposed by the Customs Cooperation Council. April JO. A temporary surcharge of 5% was introduced on goods to which the 7% tariff rate applies. September 5. The 7% tariff rate was reduced to 4%. September 7. The reference pr ic ing system was modified, whereby dairy products were added to the list and the rate on sugar was increased by 44%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the P h i l i p p i n es is the Ph i l ipp ine peso. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly f lo a t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are de te rm ined on the basis of supp ly and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng P i l ip inas (BSP) acts to l im it sharp f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate and intervenes when necessary to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the ex- change marke t. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange th rough the Ph i l ipp ine Deal- ing System (PDS), an e lec t ron ic screen-based ne twork. The PDS allows trad ing between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. da i ly among Bankers Association of the Ph i l ipp ines member banks and the BSP. The system l inks participants through an electronic screen-based network a l low ing them to share in fo rm a t ion and transact bus iness. The exchange rate of the peso v is-a-v is the do l lar at the b eg inn ing of the t rad ing day represents the weighted average of all t ransac t ions in the PDS d u r i ng the preceding day. The amount of foreign exchange that may be sold over the counter w i thout documen ta t ion and prior BSP approval is the equiva- lent of $5,000. No. No. All forward purchases, contracts, and sales w i th no f u ll de l ive ry of p r inc ipal invo lv ing non- residents ( inc lud ing offshore banking units) require BSP approval. Only banks with an expanded derivatives l icense may enter in to transac t ions covered by nonde l ive rab le for- ward contracts. This p o l i cy is subject to qua r te r ly rev iew by the BSP. E f f e c t ive Augu st 9, 2002, the BSP au thor izes the ro l love r, w i t h o ut p r ior approval, of short- term d e l iv e r ab le fo rwa rd contracts w i th non re s iden ts at every m a tu r i ty d u r i ng the course of the unde r ly ing long-term P h i l i p p i ne government securities, provided that (1) the underlying transactions for each short-term deliverable foreign exchange forward contract are BSP- registered fo re ign inve s tmen ts in gove rnment secu r i t ies; (2) the ac tual de l ivery /se t t lement of the forward con tract co inc ides w i th the date of the repa tr ia t ion of the BSP-registered investments; (3) the va lue of the forward contract does not exceed the foreign currency equ iva lent of the ma tu r i ty value/net proceeds of the BSP-registered investments computed based on the agreed upon forward exchange rate; (4) the repa tr ia t ion and remittance out of the coun t ry of the BSP-registered inves tmen ts comp ly w i th the documen tary requ iremen ts under ex is t ing BSP rules; and (5) the bank concerned submits to the BSP a weekly report on forward con trac ts w i th non res iden ts. E f fec t ive March 13, 2003, the max imum ma tu r i ty of all forward contracts, i.e., outright forward and forward swap con t rac ts to cover long-term fo re ign cu r rency requ i remen t s, may not exceed s ix mon th s. O f f ic ial cover of forward opera t ions Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements There is no p re sc r ip t ion of cu r rency r equ i r em en ts for ou tgo ing payments, but a ll fore ign exchange proceeds f rom expor ts and i n v i s i b l es must be obtained in the fo l low ing accept- able currencies: Aus t ra l ian dollars, Bahrain dinars, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, euros, Hong Kong do l lars, Indones ian rupiahs, Kuwa i ti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, 757 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 758 PHILIPPINES Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, yen, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the BSP. Pay- ments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, provided that the BSP is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Controls on the use of domestic currency The use of domestic currency for international payments and receipts is not allowed, except for imports from and exports to ASEAN countries. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents There are no restrictions provided that the transaction does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control A bilateral payments agreement with Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has been in force since Ju ly 11, 1998. The agreement was originally concluded for one year and has been extended indef in i te ly. Commercial banks accredited by the BSP are the authorized channel for trans- actions within the framework of the agreement, and settlements take place through the BSP or the BNM on a net basis over a two-month period. The Philippines is a member of the ASEAN. Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board of the BSP. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the BSP. All forms or types of gold may be bought and sold without specific approval of the BSP. Producers selling gold to the BSP are paid in pesos on the basis of the latest London f ix ing price and the pre- vailing peso-dollar exchange rate. Gold acquired in this way is deemed to be part of the off ic ial international reserves. The BSP may sell gold dust, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and industrial users, at the BSP's gold-selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including the costs of conversion and packaging. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except gold coin blanks and gold bu l l ion lacking indication of the actual fineness of the gold content; the importa- tion of gold blanks requires prior BSP clearance, and the importation of gold bullion is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers must obtain prior authorization from the BSP to take out more than P 10,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange denominated in pesos. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency PHILIPPINES 759 Wr i t ten dec lara t ion of the source and purpose of the funds is required to export amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent. Nonresident tourists and "balikbayans" may buy back fore ign exchange up to the amount they p rev iou s ly sold for pesos to the bank ing system; proof of p rev ious sale is needed for depar t ing nonresidents to reconvert unspent pesos of up to a max imum of $200 or its equivalent, calculated at the prevailing exchange rate. Travelers may br ing in freely up to P 10,000 in domestic banknotes and coins, checks, money orders, and o ther b i l ls of exchange denominated in pesos. Imports exceeding this amount requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the BSP. Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly any amount of foreign currency, but imports exceeding $5,000 or its equ iva lent requ ire a written declaration regarding the source and the purpose of the fund s. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to fore ign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident peso deposit accounts are allowed, provided they are funded by inward remit- tances of fo re ign currency or by peso income f rom non res iden ts' properties located in the Ph i l ipp ine s, whe ther real or personal, or proceeds from the conversion thereof. Conve rs ion of domestic cu r rency accounts is allowed on ly up to the equ iva lent amount of foreign exchange remitted to the Philippines as well as to the equivalent amount of peso income earned by nonres iden ts, provided the proceeds derive from a peso time deposit with a m a tu r i ty of at least 90 days that was registered w i th the BSP. For funds to be convertible into foreign currency for repatriation abroad, investments in bank deposits must be in pe- sos, must have a m a tu r i ty of at least 90 days, and must be registered with the BSP. Deposits of proceeds a r i s ing f rom other inves tmen ts, such as stocks and government securities, are not subject to the 90-day ho ld ing period. The BSP registration document, which is issued d i rec t ly by the BSP for such investments, w i ll be canceled if the investments are terminated before the end of the 90-day period. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for payments of imports under LCs, docu- ments aga inst acceptance (DAs), documen ts against payments (DPs), open account ar- rangemen ts (OAs), and by direct rem i t tances. Registration of DA and OA imports with the BSP is needed on ly if payments are to be made from the banking system. Accounts overdue by more than 30 ca lendar days for wh ich no request for ex tens ion of payment has been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 PHILIPPINES Letters of c red it Other Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Po s i t ive l i st Nega t ive l i st Open general l icen ses f i led w i th the BSP or no advice on nonpayment has been received from the creditor con- cerned must be deemed to have been paid and are not e l ig ib le for servicing w i th foreign exchange purchased f rom the bank ing system. LCs mu st be opened on or be fo re the date of sh ipment w i th a va l id i ty period of up to one year. On ly one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval except when the amend- ment ex tends the total v a l i d i ty of the LC beyond one year. Pu rchases of fore ign exchange f rom the b ank ing system requ i re presentation of original sh ipp ing documen ts and the amount purchased must not exceed the value of the imports ind ica ted in the invo ice. G e n e r a l l y, all me rchand ise impor ts are a l lowed w i t h o ut a license, and w i thout restrictions, u n l e ss o therw ise p roh ib i t ed by ex i s t ing laws, ru les, or regu la t ions. DA and OA imports requ i re reg is tra t ion w i th the BSP if such imports are to be paid with foreign exchange pur- chased f rom the domes t ic b a n k i ng system Yes. The impo r ta t ion of ce r ta in p roduc ts is regu la ted or restricted for reasons of pub l ic hea l th and safety, na t ional secur i ty, in te rna t ional comm i tmen ts, and development and rationaliza- t i on of local indu s t r i e s. Commod i ty impo r ts are c lass i f ied in to three categories: f ree ly importable, regulated, and p r o h i b i t e d. To import regu la ted produc ts, a c learance or permit is requ ired from the appro- p r ia te gove rnment agency ( i n c l u d i ng the BSP). Licenses w i th quotas Quan t i ta t ive restrictions are imposed on the imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs The impo rt ta r i ff s t ru c tu re consists of four rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on im- ported cap i tal goods are 3% and 10%, w i th the former app ly ing to goods that are not pro- duced locally or are produced loca l ly but not in su f f ic ient quantities. Deviations from the standard rates i n c l u de the fo l low ing: (1) up to doub le the applicable standard rate for im- ports of f in al goods in indus t r ies that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Investment (BOI), and imports of agr icu l tural products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed und er the WTO agreement; (2) du ty exemp t ions for certain imported capital goods registered w i th the BOI pr ior to Janua ry 1, 1995, or subject to prov is ions of the Ex- port Deve lopment Act; (3) du ty exemp t ions for imports of some 300 products f a l l i ng under the c l a s s i f i c a t ions of mach ine ry, equ ipm en t, and accompany ing spare parts used in export m a n u f a c t u r i n g; (4) a t a r i ff rate of 1% on imports of some selected capital goods not pro- duced loca l ly; and (5) du ty exemp t ions for selected inpu ts to the agr icu l tural and f ishe ry sectors as prov ided for und er the Ag r i cu l tu re and Fishery Modernization Act. New ly regis- tered f i rms may ob ta in d u ty reduc t ions on e l ig ib le imports on ly up to 3%. Tariff rates in the t ex t i le and apparel sectors are 3% for i n p u ts and 20% for f inal products. BOI c e r t i f i c a t i on is requ i red at the t ime an LC is opened to q u a l i fy for the preferen t ial rate of 3% for impo r ts of w i re rod. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requ irements No. F inanc ing requirements Paymen ts for exports may be made in acceptable currencies in the fo l low ing forms w i thout p r ior BSP approva l: DAs, DPs, LCs, OAs, in te rcompany open account offsets, consign- men ts, and export advances. Documentat ion requirements All expor ts must be covered by an export dec la ra t ion, wh ich may be obtained from the Bu reau of Cus toms or the Depa r tment of Trade and Indus t ry. Export licenses Regulated exports requ i re a prior export clearance from the relevant government agencies. These pe r ta in to a few export i tems —mos t ly garments and tex t i les; endangered w i ld l i fe species; l i ve an ima ls; and o ther items regu la ted for na t ional in teres t, security, or hea l th reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 761 W i thout quo tas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The amount of foreign exchange an authorized agent bank may sell to residents for any non trade purpose, w i thout documen ta t ion, is $5,000 or the equ iva len t. A purchaser may make such purchases once every 15 days. This l im it is to be applied on a consolidated basis by the bank and its subs id ia r ies /a f f i l ia tes, i n c l u d i ng fo re ign exchange corporations. Sales of fore ign exchange exceed ing th is l im it may be effected only th rough an authorized agent w i th a wr i t ten, notarized application and supporting documents. Similarly, a notarized ap- plication with supporting documentation is required for purchases of foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 by residents for trade and nontrade purposes from cor- pora t ions engaged in fo re ign exchange t rad ing that are subs id iar ies or a f f i l ia tes of banks, quas i-banks, or nonbank f i n a n c i al in termed iar ies. These corporations may not sell foreign exchange to non res iden ts and are subject to the same ru les as banks regarding the ir trading activities. Such corporations are prohibited from selling foreign exchange to pay obliga- tions to residents other than banks or to deposit the foreign exchange in a foreign currency deposit u n it (FCDU) account. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Inves tmen t - re la ted payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Inves tmen t-re la ted paymen ts may be serviced u s ing foreign exchange purchased from the domes t ic system on ly if such fore ign inves tmen ts are registered w i th the BSP. The BSP regu la tes fo re ign currency loans to ensure that interest and p r inc ipal owed to creditors can be serviced in an order ly manner and w i th due regard to the economy's overall debt- servicing capacity. Service paymen ts r e l a t ing to fore ign loans effec ted w i th purchases of foreign exchange through au tho r ized agent banks are l im i ted to those transac t ions whose o r ig inal capital transfer has prev ious ly been registered with the BSP or are specifically authorized by the BSP to purchase foreign exchange from the bank ing system. Unregistered loans may be serviced w i th fo re ign exchange o r ig in a t ing f rom ou ts ide the bank ing system. The Monetary Board of the BSP sets and approves the ceiling for medium- and long-term foreign loans of the pub l ic and private sectors, as well as for short-term foreign loans of the p u b l ic sector. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 PHILIPPINES Other payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading that are subsidiaries or aff i l ia tes of banks, quasi-banks, or nonbank financial intermediaries may not sell foreign exchange to nonresidents and are subject to the same rules as banks regarding their trading activities. Such corporations are prohibited from selling foreign exchange to pay obligations to resi- dents other than banks or to deposit the foreign exchange in an FCDU account. Pursuant to the Philippines Constitution, all public and private sector publicly guaranteed obligations from foreign creditors, including offshore banking units and FCDUs, are re- ferred to the BSP for prior approval. Other private sector loans from foreign creditors and other financing schemes/arrangements require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. For- eign currency borrowings from FCDUs with a maturity exceeding one year are governed by the same guidelines. In the case of short-term FCDU loans, including those obtained by the private sector, no prior BSP approval is required, provided that the borrower/project quali- fies for foreign f inanc ing. These short-term FCDU loans must, however, be reported by the creditor banks to the BSP to be eligible for servicing with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Effec t ive February 24, 2003, offshore banking un i ts (OBUs) may hold peso-denominated assets (i.e., bonds or other certificates of indebtedness, shares of stocks, and other proper- ties) arising from res truc tur ing or other repayment schemes of outstanding loans, subject to the terms and conditions of the approval of such restructuring/other repayment schemes. Bonds or other certificates of indebtedness issued by a third party, as well as shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of restructuring/other payment schemes, must be booked at the ir appraised value or the loan balance, whichever is smaller. Shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of restructuring/other repayment schemes, must be sold/disposed of w i th in a period of five years of the acquisition date. Booking of bonds, other certificates of indebtedness, and shares of stock acquired must be adjusted in cases of decline in the ir market values while other properties must be subject to regular provisioning w i th in three years of the contract date. Foreign investors must hold peso time deposits for a m in imum of 90 days and register with the BSP to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system for capital repatria- tion/outward remittance of earnings. There is no m in imum ho ld ing period for all other types of eligible investments. However, BSP registrations of investments are required to purchase foreign exchange from the bank- ing system for the servicing of capital repatriation/remittance of earnings. As a general rule, registration with the BSP or designated custodian bank is not mandatory. Registration is necessary only if the source of the foreign exchange needed for capital repa- tr ia t ion and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the bank ing system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts PHILIPPINES 763 The sale or issue of secur i t ies in the Ph i l ipp in es is allowed only af ter the proper license to do bus iness in the coun try is secured by the non res ident from the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issue does not invo lve the purchase of foreign exchange f rom the bank ing system. Residents may invest abroad w i thout prior approval and subsequent registration of their inves tmen ts w i th the BSP on ly if (1) the inves tmen ts are funded by withdrawals from FCDUs; (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to authorized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the banking system but in amounts of less than $6 m i l l ion or the equivalent for an investor a year. For amounts above t h is amoun t, p r ior approval and registration w i th the BSP is required. Outward in- vestments of domestic banks, however, are requ ired to be registered with the BSP regard- less of the amoun t. Registration with the BSP or a designated custodian bank may be made at the option of the investor. In add i t ion, proceeds from sales of in terna t ional allocations of in i t ial pub l ic offer- ings (IPOs) and shares of domestic companies listed in foreign stock exchanges must also be reported to the BSP w i t h in f ive days of receipt and remitted to the country. The servic- ing or transfer of funds pertaining to registered investments using foreign exchange from the bank ing system in th is category is allowed w i thout BSP approval. Registration with the BSP is necessary only if the foreign exchange needed for capital repa- t r ia t ion and rem i t tance of d iv idends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the bank ing system. These transactions are allowed on ly after the proper license to do business in the country is secured f rom the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issue does not invo lve the pu rchase of foreign exchange f rom the bank ing system. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Amoun ts above the equ iva lent of $6 m i l l ion an investor a year o r ig ina t ing in the bank ing system requ i re pr ior approval and registration with the BSP. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts These t ransac t ions are subject to p r ior approval by the BSP if the pr inc ipal and interest amor t iza t ion are to be serviced us ing fo re ign exchange purchased from the bank ing system or guaran teed by p u b l ic sector en t i t ies or local banks. On money market in s t rum en ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase lo c a l ly by non re s iden ts Sale or issue l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts Purchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial c red i ts To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. P r ior BSP approval is required. Only banks and nonbank f inanc ial intermediaries perform- ing qua s i -bank ing fun c t ions and the ir a f f i l ia tes /subs id ia r ies du ly authorized by the BSP are allowed to deal in derivative transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. P r ior BSP approval and reg is t ra t ion are requ i red for fore ign loans by residents that are guaranteed by the pub l ic sector or local banks. Those not guaranteed but that are to be ser- v iced w i th fo re ign exchange purchased f rom the b a n k i ng system requ i re BSP registration. Regardless of m a tu r i ty, if these cred i ts are to be serviced w i th the borrower's own foreign exchange resources or f rom ou ts ide the b a n k i ng system, they need not be approved and/or registered w i th the BSP un le ss guaran teed by government f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions or banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 764 PHILIPPINES F i n a n c i al c red i ts Transac t ions i n v o l v i ng and the status of pr iva te sector loans must be reported to the BSP for statistical purposes. Loans of non re s iden ts f rom expanded fore ign currency deposit un i ts (EFCDUs), irrespec- t ive of ma tur i ty, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us- ing fo re ign exchange purchased outside the b ank ing system; and (2) all applicable bank ing ru les and regu la t ions are comp l ied w i th, i n c l u d i ng the single borrower's l im i t, which is de f ined to in c lude lend ing and guarantees issued to companies, the ir subsidiaries, affiliates, and ma jor stockholders all over the wor ld. By residents to nonresidents These t ransac t ions are not con t ro l led if they do not invo lve foreign exchange purchased f rom the b a n k i ng system. To residents from nonresidents The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing commerc ial c red i ts app ly. Guaran tees, su re t ies, and f i n a n c i al b a ckup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward d i rect inve s tment Gua ran tees for the account of the p u b l ic sector in favor of non res iden ts, as well as those issued by corpora t ions owned or con t ro l led by the government, requ i re prior BSP approval. Spec i f ic gua ran tees for the account of the p r iva te sector covering foreign ob l iga t ions other than foreign loans do not requ ire prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for regis- t ra t ion purposes to be e l i g i b le for debt serv ic ing u s ing fore ign exchange purchased from the b a n k i ng system. Gua ran tees issued by fo re ign banks and f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions to secure obligations of resi- den ts invo lv ed in fo re ign l e n d i ng ope ra t ions requ i re p r ior BSP approval. Those issued to secure au tho r ized peso loans or FCDU loans, as we ll as foreign obligations (which do not invo lve fo re ign l e n d i n g) of local f irms, do not requ i re pr ior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be e l ig ib le for debt servicing using foreign exchange purchased from the b ank ing system in the event of a de fau lt by the p r inc ipal debtor. Documen ts show ing the na tu re and the place of investment, an under tak ing to remit the divestment proceeds or prof i ts therefrom, and the app l ican t's income tax return are re- qu i r ed. In order to purchase fore ign exchange f rom the bank ing system, applicants must s u bm it a p p l i c a t i o ns for amoun ts exceed ing the equ iva lent of $6 m i l l i on an investor a year and ob ta in BSP app rova l. Inwa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent Inwa rd inve s tmen ts need not be registered w i th the BSP. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment BSP reg i s t ra t ion is r equ i r ed to repa tr ia te cap i tal and rem i t tance of prof i ts, d iv idends, and o ther ea rn ings. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Pu rchase l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Sale lo c a l ly by non res iden ts Controls on personal cap i tal transact ions G i f t s, endowmen t s, i n h e r i t a n c e s, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Own e r sh ip of l and by non r e s id en t s, as we ll as the exp lo ra t ion, deve lopmen t, and use of na tu ral resources, is l im i ted to 40% equ i ty and is subject to the provisions of the Ph i l ipp ine C o n s t i t u t i o n. These sales are allowed, sub ject to legal and cons t i tu t ional limits. If their proceeds are to be repa t r ia ted abroad u s ing fo re ign exchange purchased from the b a n k i ng system, the transac- t i on mu st be reg is tered w i th the BSP as a fo re ign inves tmen t. No p r iv a te land may be transferred or conveyed except to ind iv idu a l s, corporations, or as- sociations q u a l i f i ed to acqu ire or hold land of the pub l ic domain. T ran s fer of g am b l i ng and p r ize e a rn ings Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 765 Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Banks w i th f o r e i gn exchange t r a d i ng corpora t ions as sub s id ia r ies or a f f i l i a t es must make ava i lab le on a d a i ly basis the names of coun te rpa r t ies and other de ta i ls of purchases and sales of fore ign exchange. Borrow ing abroad Lend ing to non re s iden ts ( f i n a n c i al or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Bank s' shor t- term i n t e r b a nk loans are not subject to p r ior BSP approval; however, med ium- and long-term loans for re lend ing requ i re prior BSP approval and registration. Banks may g rant comme rc ial c red it to non re s iden ts under any of the f o l l ow i ng modes of payment w i thout pr ior BSP approval: (1) LCs; (2) DPs or cash against payment; (3) DAs; (4) OAs; (5) intercompany open account offsets; (6) consignments; and (7) export ad- vances. Commercial banks, wh ich are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign cu r rency deposit system, may grant fo re ign cu r rency loans to nonres iden ts, irrespective of ma tu r i ty, w i t h o ut p r ior approval of the BSP, prov ided that the loan is serviced using foreign exchange purchased from outside the bank ing system; and all applicable banking rules and regu la t ions are complied w i th, in c lud ing all l im i ts of lend ing to a single borrower, which are def ined to in c lude lend ings and guarantees issued to companies, the ir subsidiaries, af- f i l ia te s, and ma jor stockholders a ll over the wor ld. Pr ior BSP approval is not required for short-term FCDU loans to (a) commodity and ser- v ice exporters, to f in an ce expo r t -o r ien ted cost of goods and services as well as peso cost requ i remen t s; and (b) producers and manu fac tu re r s, i n c l u d i ng o il companies and pub l ic u t i l i ty firms, to f in an ce import costs of goods and services necessary in the production of goods by the borrowers concerned. However, creditor banks must report these loans to the BSP for registration purposes in order to enable the borrowers to have access to foreign exchange th rough the bank ing system to service the loans at maturity. Medium- and long- term FCDU loans are sub ject to p r ior approval and reg is t ra t ion with the BSP to be e l ig ib le for s e rv i c ing w i th fo re ign exchange pu rchased f rom the bank ing system. E f fec t ive J a n u a ry 2 1, 2003, FCDU /EFCDU funds of un ive r sal and commercial banks may lend to th e ir regu lar b a n k i ng u n it (RBU) to fund the la t te r 's on-balance sheet foreign ex- change trade transactions provided that the FCDU/EFCDU has fu l ly complied with the requ i rement of prescribed 100% asset cover/30% l iqu id i ty cover on FCDU/EFCDU liabili- ties. FCDU /EFCDU lend ing to the RBU must be capped at the lower of total outstanding ba lance on the RBU's on-balance-sheet fore ign currency trade assets or at 30% of the level of FCDU /EFCDU deposit l i a b i l i t i e s, computed at the average da i ly balance (using two- mon th ro l l i r lg data) as of the second week p r ior to the reference week and must charge interest at p reva i l ing market rates; the ma tur i ty of the loan must be less than one year. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange EFCDUs of commercial banks may invest in foreign currency-denominated securities. An FCDU of a t h r i ft bank may on ly invest in foreign currency-denominated debt instruments that are of short-term ma tu r i ty and readily marketable. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment r egu l a t ions In banks by nonresidents Effective Janua ry 18, 2002, the l iqu id i ty reserve requirement against peso demand, savings, and t ime deposits and deposit subs t i tu te l iab i l i t ies of commercial and universal banks was reduced to 7% f rom 9%. On March 21, 2003, the Monetary Board set the l iqu id i ty reserve r equ i r em ent for un iv e r s al and commerc ial banks at 8% (p rev ious ly, 7%). The regular re- serve requ i rement rema ined unchanged at 9% on both occasions. As a result, the reserve requ irement applied to peso deposits and deposit substitute liabilities of universal and commercial banks decreased to 16% from 18% on January 18, 2002, and increased again to 17% on March 21, 2003. A reserve requ i rement is not applied to deposit accounts in for- eign exchange. Depositary banks w i th FCDUs and EFCDUs must ma in ta in at all times 100% asset cover for th e ir fo re ign cu r rency l i ab i l i t i e s. At least 30% of the cover requ i rement for these l iab i l i- t ies must be in the form of l i q u id assets. Fo re ign own e r sh ip of domestic banks is allowed up to 100%. Foreign ju r id ical and na tural pe rsons may own 40%. Howeve r, banks that are a ma jo r i ty fore ign owned may not account for more t h an 30% of the to tal reserves of the b a n k i ng system. Open fo re ign exchange po s i t ion l im i ts For FCDUs of comme rc ial banks and expanded commerc ial banks, at least 70% of the cover must be ma in ta ined in the same currency as the l iab i l i ty and up to 30% may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 766 PHILIPPINES denominated in other acceptable foreign currenc ies. FCDUs of t h r i ft banks must ma in ta in the foreign currency cover in the same currency as that of the corresponding foreign cur- rency deposit liability. E f fec t ive March 19, 2003, the l im it on a bank 's long (overbough t) fore ign exchange is 2.5% of its unimpaired capital or the equivalent of $5 m i l l ion, whichever is smaller (previ- ously, 5% or the equ iva lent of $10 m i l l ion ). No l im it applies on short (oversold) foreign exchange positions. Any excess above the overbought l im it must be settled daily. The BSP imposes sanctions for the v io la t ion of open position l im i ts. No d i f f e r en t i al treatment is ascribed to resident and nonres ident deposit accounts w i th respect to l iqu id asset require- ments, as all depository banks w i th in the foreign currency deposit system are required to ma in ta in at all times a 100% asset cover for their foreign currency l iab i l i t ies, of wh ich 30% must be l iqu id. Foreign exchange t rad ing corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading ac t iv i t ies and that are not subsidiaries of banks must report mon th ly the ir purchases, sales, and daily foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Except as may be au tho r ized by the mone tary board, total equ i ty inves tmen ts in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by an inves tment house w i th quas i -bank ing fun c t ions may not at any t ime exceed 15% of its net worth. Outward inves tmen ts by residents in amounts exceeding $6 m i l l ion or the equ iva lent require prior approval and registration by the BSP. For amounts below that amount, the funds to be invested may be purchased from authorized agent banks, subject to BSP documen ta ry requirements. As a general rule, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the pub l ic within the coun try un less such securities have been registered and are permitted to be sold by the Se- cur i t ies and Exchange Commission (SEC). A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded on a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Philippines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesperson must register with the SEC to do business in the country. Changes During 2002 August 9. The BSP authorized the rollover, w i thout prior approval, of short-term deliver- able forward contracts with nonresidents at every maturity of the underlying long-term Ph i l ipp ine government securities, provided that: (1) unde r ly ing transactions for each short- term de l ive rab le fo re ign exchange forward contract are BSP-registered foreign inves tmen ts in government securities; (2) actual delivery/settlement of the forward contract coincides with the date of the repatriation of the BSP-registered investments; (3) value of the forward contract does not exceed the foreign currency equ iv a l ent of the ma tu r i ty value/net proceeds of the BSP-registered inves tmen ts computed based on the agreed-upon forward exchange rate; (4) repatriation and remittance out of the coun t ry of the BSP-registered investments comply with the documentary requirements under existing BSP rules; and (5) the bank concerned submits to the BSP a weekly report on forward contracts with nonresidents. January 18. The l i q u i d i ty reserve requ i rement app l icab le to peso demand, savings, and time deposits and deposit substitute l iab i l i t ies of commercial and un iversal banks was reduced to 7% from 9%, wh i le the regular reserve requirement remained unchanged at 9% (as a result, the reserve requ i rement dec l ined to 16% f rom 18%). Exchange arrangement March 13. All forward contracts, i.e., outright forward and forward swap contracts to cover long-term foreign currency requirements, must have a max imum ma tur i ty of six months. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions PHILIPPINES 767 February 24. OBUs were allowed to hold peso-denominated assets (i.e. bonds or other certificates of indebtedness, shares of stocks, and other properties) arising from restructur- ing or other repayment schemes of outstanding loans, subject to the terms and conditions of the approval of such restructuring/other repayment schemes. Bonds or other certificates of indebtedness issued by a third party, as well as shares of stocks and other properties ac- quired as a result of restructuring/other payment schemes, must be booked at their ap- praised value or the loan balance, whichever is lower. Shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of restructuring/other payment schemes must be sold/disposed of within a period of five years of the acquisition date. Booking of bonds, other certificates of indebt- edness, and shares of stock acquired must be adjusted in cases of decline in their market values while other properties shall be subject to regular provisioning within three years of the contract date. January 21. FCDU/EFCDU funds of universal and commercial banks were allowed to lend to their RBU to fund the latter's on-balance-sheet foreign exchange trade transactions only after they have fu l ly complied with the prescribed requirement of 100% asset cover/30% liquidity cover on FCDU/EFCDU liabilities. FCDU/EFCDU lending to the RBU must be capped at the lower of total outstanding balance on the RBU's on-balance-sheet foreign currency trade assets or at 30% of the level of FCDU/EFCDU deposit liabilities, computed at the average daily balance (using two-month rolling data) as of the second week prior to the reference week and must charge interest at prevailing market rates; the maturity of the loan must be less than one year.) March 19. The limit on a bank's long (overbought) foreign exchange position was set at 2.5% of its unimpaired capital or the equivalent of $5 million, whichever is smaller (previ- ously, 5% or the equivalent of $10 million). March 21. The liquidity reserve requirement for universal and commercial banks was in- creased to 8% from 7%, while the regular reserve requirement remained unchanged at 9% (as a result, the reserve requirement rose to 17% from 16%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Currency The currency of Poland is the Polish zloty. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification I n d e p e n d e n t ly f l o a t i ng Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the z lo ty is de term ined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange marke t, and the zloty is traded free ly against all currencies. No. No. Forward exchange market A l i q u id swap market exists. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of fore ign exchange among res iden ts Payments arrangements B i la te ral paymen ts arrangements Inoperative Reg ional a r rangemen ts C l e a r i ng agreemen ts Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF E x e c u t i ve Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Settlements in fore ign currency among residents in Poland requ ire a foreign exchange per- m i t, except for those that are (1) not related to the conduct of bus iness ac t iv i t ies between na tu ral persons; (2) related to sales of goods or property rights abroad; or (3) conducted between employers and employees regarding business trips or work abroad. There are agreements w i th Iraq, the Syrian Arab R epub l i c, Tun is ia, and Turkey. Out- s tand ing balances are be ing settled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Po land is a member of the CEFTA. There are inop e r a t ive agreements w i th members of the former CMEA. The a u t h o r i ty to make bas ic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests w i th parliament. R e g u l a t i o ns are p romu lga ted by the MOF, in cooperation w i th the pres ident of the National Bank of Po land (NBP). Gene ral fore ign exchange permits are granted by the NBP in the form of regu la t ions. Decisions concerning ind iv idual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Adm in i s t ra t ive Court. The NBP exercises con tro ls over issuance of fo re ign exchange pe rm i ts, exchange off ices ac t iv i t ies, and submission by commercial banks to the NBP of the ir bank ing statistics, for the purpose of compiling balance-of- payments data and the external asset and l iab i l i t ies position of the country. In comp l i an ce w i th UN Secu r i ty Counc il re so lu t ion s, Poland imposed and maintained a ban on trade w i th Iraq and on exports of certain products to Libya. The Polish government bans, in l i ne w i th re levant UN Secu r i ty Counc il re so lu t ion s, exports of arms and m i l i ta ry equip- ment to the f o l l ow i ng coun t r i e s: Ango la (for UN ITA forces), Ha i t i, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, and Soma l ia. In accordance w i th UN s an c t ions Payments arrears Yes. No. 768 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 769 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Resident ind iv idua ls may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewelry form, is subject to perm iss ion f rom the NBP. Con tro ls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad The expo r ta t ion of fo re ign gold co ins requ i res a perm i t, except for exports by nonres iden ts (who had p r ev iou s ly impor ted them in to the coun t ry) and imports by res iden ts for conduct- ing business in precious metals. However, the exportation of gold coins issued by the NBP is permitted. Coins made f rom prec ious metals are not legal tender in Poland. The expor ta t ion of fo re ign or domes t ic bankno tes w i th a total va lue exceeding the equiva- lent of €10,000 requ i res pe rm iss ion, w i th the f o l l ow i ng exceptions: (1) exportation by non- residents of banknotes prev ious ly imported in to the country or banknotes purchased or exchanged at a bank for bankno tes p rev iou s ly imported in to the country; (2) exportation by residents and non re s iden ts of banknotes w i thd rawn from a bank account or purchased from a bank for banknotes in a bank account; and (3) exportation by nonresidents of traveler's checks signed by them. Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of €5,000 in any currency w i thout documen ta ry proof of o r ig in. There are no l im i ta t ions on nonres ident exports of fore ign secu r i t ies or trave ler's checks. Res iden ts must repatriate foreign exchange w i th in two months of re tu rn ing to Poland. Polish na t iona ls may take abroad up to €5,000 or its equ iva lent in fore ign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Documentary proof of or ig in is necessary for amounts ex- ceeding th is l im i t. Re s iden ts must repa t r ia te fore ign exchange w i t h in two months of re turn- ing to Po land. For o f f i c i al and bus iness travel, a l lowances are based on separate regu la t ions on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Imports of domestic or foreign banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of €10,000 must be reported to the cus toms adm in i s t ra t ion au tho r i t i e s. Residents and nonresidents may import up to the equ iva lent of €10,000 in any currency w i t h o ut n o t i f i c a t i on to the customs au tho r i t ie s. There are no l im i ta t ions on nonresident exports of fo re ign secu r i t ies or t rave le r 's checks. Res iden ts must repatriate foreign ex- change w i th in two months of re turn ing to Poland. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange and domestic means of payment w i th in two mon ths a f ter r e t u r n i ng to Po land. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Res iden ts ( i n d i v i d u a ls and enterprises) are a l lowed to m a in t a in accounts in the member coun t r ies of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD w i thout perm iss ion. Accoun ts in other coun- tr ies may be ma in ta ined in connec t ion w i th the economic ac t iv i ty conducted in these coun- tr ies or in connection w i th management of po r t fo l io investments by residents in these coun- tr ies. A c t i v i ty in these accoun ts mu st be reported qu a r t e r ly to the NBP. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The regu la t ions for fore ign exchange accounts he ld abroad also apply to these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 770 POLAND Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. These accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on the agreement w i th the bank, and they may be credited with funds from any source that is in compliance with foreign exchange regu la t ions. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, w i th the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment; specific substances that deplete the ozone layer; nu t r i t ive gelatin; used tex t i le articles; articles for fairs; table or parlor games; alcoholic beverages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from b i tum inous m inera ls; gasoline and light oils; na tu ral gas and other gaseous hydrocar- bons; coal; and goods for the industrial assembly of motor vehicles. Imports of specific ozone-depleting substances and goods are prohibited. Until January 1, 2002, imports of the fo l low ing were proh ib i ted: passenger cars and other passenger vehi- cles older than 10 years; trucks, vans, other utility cars, and passenger vehicles older than 3 years used for transportation of more than 10 persons; cars with two-cycle engines; and combine harvesters. Imports of petroleum o i ls and o i ls obtained from b i tum inous minerals or ig ina t ing from the Czech Repub l ic or the Russian Federation are subject to quantitative quotas. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tar iff. Import ta r i f fs are based on the Harmonized System and the Com- bined Nomenc la ture of the EU, w i th six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, tex t i les, and cattle hides; up to 3% on other raw materials; 6% to 9% on basic parts of sem i f in ished and f in ished goods; 12% to 25% on indus t r ial goods; 25% to 30% on ag r icu l tu ral products; 9% to 18% on tex t i le products; and 30% on luxu ry goods. Imports f rom deve lop ing coun tr ies are granted preferential treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 45 developing countries, tropical products, and many goods that are of in ter- est to deve lop ing countries enter Poland du ty free. For the rema in ing goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, du t ies are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Du t ies and taxes on imports for export pro- duction are refunded. Imports of capital goods for new jo int ventures are exempt from customs du t ies. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes POLAND 771 Licenses are required for exports carried out within the framework of international agree- ments that stipulate bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing motor vehicles. Licenses are required for exports of radioactive materials and military equipment, as well as of goods subject to export quotas. Exports of specific species of live poultry and of ozone-depleting goods are prohibited, as are exports to Serbia and Montenegro of petro- leum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals. Exports of waste and scrap of copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers When payments exceed €10,000, all current operations must be effected through domestic banks. Residents and nonresidents must document the payments or transfers to the bank if these exceed €10,000. Credit card use abroad Credit card use abroad is permitted, but the transactions must comply with regulations. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Effec t ive October 1, 2002, all capital transactions with residents of the member countries of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD are free of controls. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. The purchase of Polish securities with a maturity of less than one year by nonresidents other than the residents of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD (residents of "third countries") is prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permit is required for residents and non- residents to trade in securities. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are allowed to purchase securities with maturities exceeding one year issued by nonresidents from "third countries" with which Poland has concluded agreements on mu- tual promotion and protection of investment (BIT countries). Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are permitted to issue or sell securities with maturities exceeding one year in BIT countries. Bonds or other debt securities Approval of the NBP is required in respect to all these transactions with non-BIT countries. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 POLAND Controls on credit operations Commercial credits An NBP permit is required in cases for wh ich the repayment date on more than one-half of the debt invo lv ing residents of BIT countries is less than one year. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. F i n a n c i al c red i ts An NBP permit is requ i red in cases for wh i ch the repayment date on more than one-half of the debt i n v o l v i ng res iden ts of BIT coun t r ies is less than one year. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward d i rect inv e s tm ent Inward direct inves tment An NBP perm it is requ i red for guarantee t ransac t ions related to c la ims re su l t ing from res iden ts of BIT coun t r ie s. An NBP perm it is requ i red for d irect investments, w i th the exception of the purchase of shares and in teres ts in compan ies based in OECD coun tr ies and in BIT coun tr ies. The fore ign exchange law does not impose controls on these transactions but contains sectoral restrictions. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The t rans fer of invested cap i tal (and prof i ts from j o i nt ven tures and from shares in Polish companies) is not res tr ic ted, and invested capital may be repatriated once ou ts tand ing obli- gations to creditors are discharged. Controls on real estate transactions Pu rchase abroad by res iden ts Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts An NBP permit is requ i red when na tu ral persons res id ing in Po land purchase real estate located in non -B IT coun t r ies if the purchase price is in excess of the equ iva lent of €50,000. An exchange permit is also requ ired for the t rans fer abroad of the foreign currency used for the purchase of such real estate. Nonresidents may acqu ire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the M in is t ry of the Interior, except when in the form of an inheritance. Under the Law on Acqu i s i t ion of Real Estate by Foreigners, foreigners may also acquire real estate w i thout a permit if (1) it is an apartment; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least f ive years af ter ob ta in ing a permanent residence visa; (3) they have been married to a Polish citizen for at least two years (the purchased real estate must constitute a part of ma t r imon ial commun i ty property); or (4) real estate is purchased by nonresident ju r id ical persons for s ta tu to ry purposes, and the size of the real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in u rban areas. The Coun c il of M in i s te rs may issue a regu la t ion d e f in ing other cases for w h i ch a permit is not requ i red, provided that the size of acqu i red real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in u rban and 10,000 square meters in ru ral areas. The Counc il of M i n i s t e rs may also ex tend the area to be acqu i red w i thout permit to 12,000 square me- ters in u rb an and 30,000 square meters in ru r al areas. Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Controls on personal cap i tal transactions Loans There are no con tro ls on f am i ly loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f t s, endowmen ts, i n h e r i t a n c e s, and legac ies By residents to nonresidents NBP approval is r equ i r ed for g i f ts exceed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of €10,000 to residents of non- B IT coun t r i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 773 Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks are pe rm i t ted to purchase secur i t ies abroad w i th in the l im i ts approved by the NBP. Reserve requirements The reserve requ i rement on foreign currency accounts differs from that on zloty accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors A bank's overall foreign exchange position is defined and regulated in accordance with the Basle Committee 1988 Capital Accord (as amended in 1995) and EU Directive 93/6/EC on Capital Adequacy of Investment Firms and Capital Institutions. In comp l iance w i th EU d irec t ives, an MOF permit is required to commence insurance busi- ness; an MOF permit is requ i red for investments in the shares of insurance companies, allowing for 25%, 50%, and 75% control of votes at general shareholders' meetings; and prudential regulations establishing l im i ts for the investment of insurance funds in the coun- try and abroad are provided by the statute on insurance operating activity. Open pension funds are allowed to invest not more than 5% of their assets abroad, and such investments may on ly be in OECD member countries or in countries with which Poland has entered in to agreements on the promo t ion and protection of investments. Further, these inves tmen ts may on ly be in (1) secur i t ies issued by companies listed on major stock ex- changes; (2) secur i t ies issued by treasur ies or central banks; and (3) mu tual fund certifi- cates, provided that they are redeemable on demand and issued by entities domiciled in one of the aforementioned countries. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts The l im it for i n s u r a n ce bus iness is 5% if denom ina ted in fore ign currency or 12% if de- nom ina ted in euros, except for the r isks situated abroad, to which technical provisions in the respective cu r rency apply. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad L im i ts (min.) on investment po r t fo l io he ld locally The l im it on open pens ion f u n ds is 5%. The regulations governing limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents apply, The l im it for in su r an ce bus iness is 88%, and for open pension funds, 95%. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments Capital transactions January 1. The proh ib i t ion on imports of the fo l low ing was lifted: passenger cars and other passenger vehicles more than 10 years old; trucks, vans, other u t i l i ty cars, and passenger vehicles more than 3 years old for transportation of more than 10 persons; cars with two- cycle engines; and combine harvesters. October 1. All capital transactions with residents of the member countries of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD were f u l ly liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, the Portuguese escudo was the legal tender in cash transactions, and during January 1-February 28, 2002, both the Portuguese escudo and the euro circulated; on March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Portugal participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Portuguese escudo was set at Esc 200.482 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control Operations in foreign exchange are permitted through the banking system. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions and EU regulations, certain restric- tions have been imposed on payments and transfers with respect to Iraq; certain residents of Myanmar; certain residents of Zimbabwe; and individuals, groups, and organizations asso- ciated with terrorism. Payments and transfers involving specific members of the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia are restricted. Special caution is recom- mended in transactions with countries with counterparties located in countries or territories not cooperating in efforts to prevent money laundering. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding €12,470 (prior to January 1, 2002, Esc 2.5 million). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and trav- eler's checks exceeding the equivalent of €12,470 (prior to January 1, 2002, Esc 2.5 mil- lion) must be declared to customs. 774 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quo tas Other non t a r i ff measures PORTUGAL Resident Accounts 775 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. In accordance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions, and EU regulations, sanctions are imposed on specific transac t ions invo lv ing diamonds (L iber ia and Sierra Leone), arma- ments (Iraq; L iber ia; Zimbabwe; the Taliban; and ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated w i th terrorism), and oil (Iraq). Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the prevention of com- mercial f raud. For ag r icu l tu ral products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be required. A few indus t r ial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list app ly ing to China inc ludes some tex t i les and a small number of f in ished products. Products of dual use may require a certificate. Imports subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions require an import license. Generally, licenses are valid for six months for customs clearance purposes. For produc ts under EU surve i l lance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical purposes and are granted au toma t ica l ly in four or five days. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 776 PORTUGAL Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes For ag r icu l tu ral produc ts covered by the CAP, an export certificate may be required. Prod- ucts of dual use may require a certificate. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on cap ital transact ions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal ma rket s e cu r i t i es Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts If the purchase is made lo c a l ly th rough a pub l ic takeover b id, it is subject to a p re l im ina ry announcement to, as well as registration w i th, the Portuguese Stock Market Committee (CMVM). If the sale occurs in Portugal through a pub l ic offer, prior CMVM registration is required. If the o f fe rer is a non res ident hav ing a head o f f ice in a non -EU country, the prior issue of a prospec tus in Portugal or any other EU coun t ry is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by re s iden ts In add i t ion to the p rov is ions of A r t i c le 148 of the Secur i t ies Code- adaptations —the fo l low ing regulations apply: -with the necessary (1) When in s t rumen ts are to be listed s imu l taneou s ly on a stock exchange located or operat- ing in Portugal and on one located or operating in another European country, the provisions of A r t ic le 145 of the Secur i t ies Code need to be observed, mu ta t is mu tand is. (2) In order for in s t rumen ts to be listed in Po r tuga l, a prospectus that has been approved by a compe tent a u t h o r i ty of ano ther EU member coun t ry needs to be subm i t ted to the CMVM three months pr ior to the pub l ic offer ing in accordance w i th Article 147 of the Securities Code. The approval au tho r i ty for the prospectus for a pub l ic o f f e r ing that is to be made s im u l t a n e o u s ly in EU member coun t r ies for secur i t ies of the same class rests in the member coun t ry in wh ich the issuer has i ts headquarters. If, however, the coun t ry w i th in wh ich the issuer resides does not have th is authority, the issuer must select another member country that has th is au tho r i ty and no t i fy the CMVM of i ts choice. Bonds or other debt securities Pu rchase l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchases that are made loca l ly th rough a pub l ic takeover bid must be reported to and reg- istered w i th the CMVM. The r egu l a t ions gove rn ing sales or issue abroad by residents of shares or other secu r i t ies also apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks PORTUGAL 777 The ma rke t ing of noncoo rd ina ted unde r tak ings for co l lec t ive inves tment in transferable securities (UCITS) must be authorized by the MOF. Coordinated UCITS must be reported t o t h e CM VM. No. No. Inves tmen ts are pe rm i t ted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to p r iva te en te rp r ise corpora t ions. Foreign inves tmen ts must be registered within 30 days af ter the operation has taken place. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and con t rac tual regime. No. No. No. Nond iscr im ina tory p ruden t ial rules apply to (1) the establishment of branches abroad, for which prior no t i f ica t ion to and permission from the Banco de Portugal (BDP) —in the case of EEA member coun t r ies —or BDP au thor iza t ion — in other cases—is required; (2) the es tab l ishment of sub s id ia r ies in non -EEA member coun tr ies, for wh ich permission of the BDP is requ i red; (3) the a cqu i s i t ion of q u a l i f y i ng ho ld ings in foreign banks or other credit in s t i tu t ion s, for wh i ch pr ior no t i f ica t ion to the BDP is required; and (4) limits on other in- vestments (e.g., capital ho ld ings in a company may not exceed 15% of a bank's own funds and the total amount of qu a l i fy ing ho ld ings may not exceed 60% of a bank's own funds — in both cases, these l im i ts are not applied to shareholdings in companies included in the supervision on a consolidated basis to wh ich the shareholding bank is subject). In banks by nonresidents Nond iscr im ina tory pruden t ial ru les apply to the acquisition of qua l i fy ing holdings. Open foreign exchange position limits The pruden t ial m i n im um own - funds requirements are applied on a nondiscriminatory basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are l im i ts on these acqu is i t ions, and the acqu is i t ion of some secur i t ies is prohibited. There are no m a x im um l im i ts on inves tmen ts in securities by insurance companies and pension funds issued by nonresidents. L im i ts (max.) on investment po r t fo l io held abroad E f f e c t ive November 1 1, 2002, the 10% max imum l im it on foreign securities quoted on EU member states' stock exchanges was e l im ina ted under Execu t ive Order 1451/2002. Limits (min .) on investment por tfo l io he ld loca l ly The 50% m i n im um l im it on domestic p u b l ic debt securities issued w i th a ma tur i ty over one year was suspended by Execu t ive Order 1451/2002. Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities compos i t ion The cu r rency -ma tch ing requ i rement for insu rance companies is 80%. Effec t ive Novem- ber 28, 2002, u n d er R u le 21/2002, the currency-ma tch ing requ i rement for pension funds is 70%. Other controls imposed by securities laws R egu l a t ions p e r t a i n i ng to f i n a n c i al markets are issued by the MOF and the CMVM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 778 PORTUGAL Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Portuguese escudo could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts January L A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding €12,470 (previously, Esc 2.5 million). March L The euro became the sole legal tender. Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors January L The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of €12,470 (previously, Esc 2.5 mil- lion) must be declared to customs. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. November 11. Executive Order 1451/2002 (Rules Governing the Composition of the Assets of Retirement/Education Savings Funds) came into effect. As a result, the 10% limit on investments in foreign securities quoted on EU member states' stock exchanges and the 50% limit on investments in public debt securities with maturity of more than one year were eliminated. November 28. Rule 21/2002 (on the Composition of the Assets of Pension Funds) came into effect. As a result, a currency-matching requirement of 70% was imposed on invest- ments by pension funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Qatar is the Qatar riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The o f f ic ial exchange rate for the Qatar riyal is pegged to the dollar at QR 3.64 per $1. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in dollars are based on the Qatar Cen- tral Bank's (QCB's) buy ing and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0085 is applied to ex- change transac t ions with the public. The buy ing and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the do l lar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the dollar. No. No. In the commercial bank ing sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control All settlements with Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are all f inanc ial transactions with Serbia and Mon tenegro. No other prescription of currency requ iremen ts is in force. n.a. The QCB is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Commerce. International security restrictions F inanc ial transactions with Serbia and Montenegro are prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade On March 19, 2002, the Qatari authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terror- ism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. No. For t rad ing purposes, the b u y i ng and se l l ing of gold and precious metals requ i re import l icenses and are subject to customs du ty. Transactions invo lv ing Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Resident Accounts 779 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 780 Held domestically He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts No d i s t i n c t i on is made between accoun ts he ld by res iden ts and those he ld by nonresidents. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign cu r rency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of a lcoho l ic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to li- censing for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Nega t ive l i st All imports from Iraq and Israel are p roh ib i ted, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are gene ra l ly subject to a customs ta r i ff of 4%, wh ich is the m in imum rate applied by members of the GCC. The customs ta r i ff on steel is 20%, and on alcohol and tobacco, 100%. Imports f rom GCC member coun t r ies are exempt f rom ta r i f fs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 781 Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Yes. No. No. No. Non c i t i z ens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, and agr icu l ture. The fore ign d i rect inve s tment law of October 2000 a l lows up to 100% foreign ownersh ip in the ag r icu l tu re, indu s t ry, hea l th, and tou r i sm sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Real estate ownership is restricted to GCC nationals. Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts Non-GCC n a t ion a ls are not allowed to own real estate. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 19. The Qatari au thor i t ies no t i f ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated w i th terrorism in ac- cordance with the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1998. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Roman ia is the Roman ian leu. The transferable rub le continues to be used as a un it of account for ou ts tand ing balances of the former CMEA. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the leu is determined in the in te rbank foreign exchange market. The Na t ional Bank of Romania (NBR) intervenes in the exchange market to guide the leu along a targeted, unannounced path, allowing for moderate fluctuations. This policy is aimed at using the exchange rate as a soft nominal anchor while preserving external viability. Less frequent NBR in terven t ions in the exchange market since the middle of 2001 have allowed a wider da i ly exchange rate f luc tua t ion (this po l icy is intended to increase the f l e x i b i l i ty of the exchange rate). Dealings in the foreign exchange market are subject to NBR au thor iza t ion. All commercial banks are au thor ized to participate in the in terbank foreign exchange market. Ju r id i c al per- sons other than authorized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. Natural persons may purchase or sell foreign currency either through au thor ized banks or through foreign exchange off ices. The NBR quo tes rates for 18 foreign currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the do l lar in the coun- tries concerned. Foreign exchange off ices conduct transactions w i th banknotes of all of the above foreign currencies and accept traveler's checks and cards denominated in these currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The forward market is not yet developed. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from coun t r ies w i th wh ich Roman ia has b i la te ral payment arrangements are made on ly in conve r t ib le currencies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those arrangements. There are arrangements with the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and some former CMEA members, aimed at l iqu ida t ing the balance of the CMEA accounts. There are arrangements with A lban ia, Algeria, Costa Rica, Egypt, and Greece. Roman ia is a member of the CEFTA and has free-trade agreements w i th the EFTA coun- tries, Israel, L i thuan ia, Moldova, and Turkey. Romania is an associated member of the EU. There are c lear ing arrangements w i th Bangladesh, the Democratic Peop le's R epub l ic of Korea, and a few coun tr ies of the former CMEA, but they are used on ly to settle p rev ious balances. 782 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) ROMANIA 783 The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange transac- tions and authorizes certain capital transfers, while current payments and the majority of capital transfers are not restricted. On April 10, 2002, the NBR notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Yes. Prior to January 1, 2003, the NBR had sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any man- ner, and it could grant permission to certain juridical persons for such purposes. Further, there were no actual authorizations for conducting external trade. Effective on that day, trade and ownership of bullion by residents and nonresidents are allowed freely. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts for the export and import of currency exceeding those detailed below have to be declared at customs and deposited against a receipt. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Natural persons may take out lei 500,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may take out foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may br ing into Romania up to lei 500,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may bring into Romania up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) juridical persons who are registered in Romania (i.e., public institutions, embassies, consulates, and other Romanian representatives abroad); (2) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, clubs, leagues, and any other profit or nonprofit juridical persons authorized to carry on activities within the Romanian territory; (3) foreign branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agen- cies; (4) Romanian citizens; (5) natural persons with foreign citizenship; and (6) stateless persons living in Romania. Yes. Except for some categories specified in regulations, resident persons need NBR approval to hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are allowed only in countries with which Romania has concluded regional convertibility agreements. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Fu ll convertibility is permitted for current account transactions. Convertibility for capital account transactions is limited and requires prior approval of the NBR. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. The accounts in domestic currency consist of account types A, B, and deposit accounts: (1) current accounts of type A are for depositing proceeds from current transactions; sales and purchases of foreign currency against lei, where the underlying transaction is of a cur- rent nature; transfers from B accounts; and interest earned on A and B accounts; (2) current ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 784 ROMANIA Convertible in to fore ign cu r r en cy accoun ts of type B are for capital transactions, i.e., sales and purchases of foreign exchange against lei, where the u n d e r l y i ng transaction is of a capital nature; proceeds from capital t ran sac t ion s; and t rans fe rs to/from A accounts; and (3) deposit accounts with the prior au- thor iza t ion of the NBR. F u ll conv e r t ib i l i ty is permitted for current account transactions stipulated by regulations (profits, d iv idends, interest, and other income sources resulting from legal transactions). Fu ll conve r t ib i l i ty is also permitted for most capital transactions of nonresidents in Roma- nia (d irect and real estate inves tmen ts as well as proceeds from the ir liquidation and capital inves tmen ts ), wh ich are allowed f ree ly by law. Conve r t ib i l i ty is also assured for all other cap i tal t ransac t ions that are subject to authorization of the NBR. The conversion into for- eign currencies may be carried out, provided that nonresidents submit to commercial banks the j u s t i f y i ng documents in c lud ing the authorization of the NBR in the case of deposit ac- coun ts. For the balances of type A accoun ts, conver t ib i l i ty is permitted w i th in 180 days s ta r t ing f rom the date of encashmen t. For the balances of type B and deposit accounts, con- v e r t ib i l i ty is permitted at any t ime. App roval requ i red Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Other non t a r i ff measures Do cum en t a t ion is requ i red for a ll import payments. Imports, in gene ra l, are not subject to licensing. The government may restrict imports for reasons of p u b l ic hea l th, na t ional defense, and state security, in accordance with the provi- s ions of the WTO. Yes. There is a cus toms fee of 0.5% for imports other than those f rom the EU, CEFTA, EFTA, Israel, L i t h u a n i a, Moldova, and Turkey. Import taxes and/or tariffs Ta r i ff rates range be tween zero and 98%, averaging about 19%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements P r ior to J a n u a ry 30, 2003, when these requ i remen ts were e l im ina ted, repatriation had to be effected ( 1) w i t h in 90 ca lendar days a f ter the goods crossed the border, in the case of re- ceipts aga inst s ight documen ts; and (2) w i th in 15 calendar days from the date of delivery, execu t ion, or rende r ing that appeared in the contract, in the case of advance payments. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes There are l icenses requ i red for s ta t is t ical purposes on certain new materials and m in im a l ly processed goods. No. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no con t ro ls on these transactions; however, payments and transfers must be documen ted for s t a t i s t i c al purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 785 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Prior to January 30, 2003, when these requirements were eliminated, repatriation had to be effected w i t h in (1) 90 days af ter comp le t ing the work or render ing the services; (2) 5 days f rom the due date that appeared in the contract; or (3) 15 days af ter completing the work or rende r ing the services in the case of advance payments. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales and issues by nonresidents require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by res iden ts P r ior to Janua ry 1, 2003, these transac t ions requ ired NBR au tho r iza t ion. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales and issues by nonresidents require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by res iden ts P r ior to Janua ry 1, 2003, these transactions required NBR au tho r iza t ion. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents These t ransac t ions requ i re NBR au thor iza t ion. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t ransac t ions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ ire NBR authorization, except for banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions requ i re NBR au tho r iza t ion, except for the sale of money market securi- ties by banks. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales and issues by nonresidents require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by residents P r ior to Janua ry 1, 2003, these transactions requ ired NBR au thor iza t ion. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial cred i ts To residents from nonresidents Derivatives may be purchased f ree ly on capital markets, but the purchase of derivatives on money markets is subject to NBR authorization, except for operations aimed at hedging against r isks a r is ing f rom in te rna t ional commerc ial transac t ions. Derivatives may be sold freely by nonresidents on capital markets, but issues require NBR authorization and approval from the Na t ional Commission for Securities. Transactions i n v o l v i ng the sale or issue of de r iva t ives on money markets require NBR au tho r iza t ion. Transactions i n v o l v i ng ins trumen ts traded on capital and money markets requ ire NBR au- thor iza t ion, except for operations aimed at hedging against risks arising from international commercial transactions. Nonres iden ts may grant medium- and long-term credits related to international commercial transactions to residents w i thout NBR authorization. Effective January 1, 2003, this was extended to inc lude short-term credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 786 ROMANIA Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Prior to October 25, 2002, when these transactions were liberalized, these transactions re- quired NBR authorization, except for short-term f inanc ial credits contracted by banks. To residents from nonresidents Prior to January 1, 2003, f inanc ial credits with a short-term ma tu r i ty requ ired NBR au thor iza t ion. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts These transactions are not allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions are not a l lowed. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Effective January 1, 2003, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. To residents from nonresidents Transfers related to short-term loans granted by nonresidents to residents may be effected freely. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transactions requ i re NBR authorization on ly for residents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Prior to January 1, 2003, transactions in ma tur i t ies of less than one year requ ired NBR authorization. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Ratios on reserves d i f fer according to the currency invo lved. Effec t ive November 24, 2002, the reserve requ irement rates were 18% for lei deposits and 25% for foreign currency de- posits. (Previously, effec t ive Apr il 1, 2002, the reserve requ i remen ts for lei and foreign currency deposits were un i f i ed at 22%.) E f fec t ive August 24, 2002, the ma tu r i ty period for banks' liabilities in foreign exchange subject to the reserve requirement was extended to two years from one year. Yes. NBR authorization is required for investments by residents or nonresidents of more than 5% in a bank 's equity. The da i ly max imum foreign exchange l im it for each currency is 10% of a bank's own funds, and the aggregate foreign exchange l im it is 20% of a bank 's own funds. For branches of foreign banks, the da i ly max imum foreign exchange l im it is the equ iva lent of $1 m i l l ion. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. n.r. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 10. The NBR no t if ied the IMF of measures taken in accordance with UN Secur i ty Counc il reso lu t ions to freeze the accounts and assets of listed ind iv idua l s, groups, and or- ganizations associated w i th terrorism. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 787 Capital transactions Controls on credit operations October 25. The authorization requirement for medium- and long-term financial credits from residents to nonresidents was eliminated. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 1. The reserve requirements for lei and foreign currency deposits were unified at 22% (previously, 25% and 20%, respectively). August 24. The maturity period for banks' liabilities in foreign exchange subject to the reserve requirement was extended to two years from one year. November 24. The reserve requirements for lei on foreign currency deposits were adjusted to 18% and 25%, respectively. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January I. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to trade and own bullion freely. Exports and export proceeds January 30. The repatriation requirements were eliminated. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions January 30. The repatriation requirements were eliminated. Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The authorization requirements for residents to purchase capital market and collective investment securities abroad were eliminated. Controls on credit operations Controls on personal capital transactions January I. Nonresidents were allowed to grant short-term credits related to international commercial transactions, and financial credits to residents without NBR authorization. January 1. Loans by residents to nonresidents no longer required NBR authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January I. Lending to nonresidents with short-term maturities no longer required NBR authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position os of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: J u ne 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Russ ia is the Russian rub le. Fore ign cu r rency as e s tab l i shed by the federal regu la t ions. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The Cen t ral Bank of the Ru s s ian Federa t ion, Bank of Russia (BOR), announces da i ly an o f f i c i al exchange rate, based on the interbank market exchange rates. This rate is used for a c coun t ing and taxa t ion purposes, and in operations with the MOF. The dollar is the inter- ven t ion currency of the BOR. The BOR operates in both the interbank currency exchanges and the over- the-coun ter in te rbank market to ma in ta in a stable ruble exchange rate. E f fec t ive J anu a ry 1, 2003, the 1% tax on purchases of foreign currencies and foreign pay- ment in s t rum en ts by na tu ral persons was e l im ina ted. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Forward t ransac t ions are conducted by authorized banks. Trading in fu tu res contracts is conducted on the Moscow In te rbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) and the St. Petersburg Currency Exchange. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Con tro ls on the use of domes t ic currency Se t t lemen ts between res iden ts and nonres iden ts may take place us ing "K," "N," "F," and "S" r u b le accoun ts of non re s iden t s. These accounts are regulated by the BOR. For capital transactions R equ i r em en ts are es tab l ished by the BOR on ly for transactions effected by nonresidents t h r o u gh "S" r u b le accoun ts. Transactions in cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts Transactions in d e r iv a t iv es and other ins t rumen ts Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Settlements between residents in foreign exchange are not allowed except for a few transac- t ions that are pe rm i t ted by the federal law. Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments a r rangemen ts Operative Inoperative There are 24 arrangemen ts. Agreemen ts ex i st w i th the I s l am ic State of A fghan is tan, Bu lgar ia, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech R e p u b l i c, Egypt, Hunga ry, I n d i a, Mongo l ia, Po land, the Slovak Repub l ic, Slovenia, and the Syrian Arab R e p u b l i c. C lea r ing agreements Yes. 788 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 789 Administration of control The BOR is the ma in agent for en fo rc ing fo re ign exchange con trol regu la t ion s, superv is ing and mon i tor ing transactions of authorized banks, and regu la t ing banks' open foreign ex- change po s i t ion s. In add i t ion to the BOR, the federal execu t ive au tho r i t ies (e i ther author- ized by the government or w i th in the l im i ts of the ir ju r i sd i c t ion) have the au thor i ty for for- e ign exchange con t ro l. Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Ce r ta in commerc ial and f i n a n c i al t ransac t ions w i th Iraq are p roh ib i ted. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Yes. Yes. The purchase and sale of prec ious metals by ju r id i c al persons are subject to mandatory state con t ro ls and r e q u i re no t i f i c a t ion to the F in an c i al Mon i to r ing Committee of the Russ ian Federa t ion. Res iden ts r e q u i re a l icense f rom the M in i s t ry of Economic Deve lopment and Trade (MEDT) to export gold. Banks require a license from the BOR to conduct transactions in p rec ious metals and export go ld. Exports and imports of rub le banknotes by res iden ts and non res iden ts are subject to BOR controls in accordance w i th policies established j o i n t ly with the MOF and the State Cus- toms Committee (SCC). Foreign bankno tes may be exported and imported by residents and non res iden ts in accordance w i th procedures established by the Law of the Russian Federa- t ion on Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion and Foreign Exchange Control. Resident and nonresident natural persons may export ruble banknotes up to the equivalent of 500 t imes the m i n im um wage es tab l ished by the government. The BOR may export ru- ble banknotes w i thout l im i t. Resident ju r id i c al persons selling goods and services to inter- na t ional trave lers may f r e e ly export r u b le banknotes. Au tho r ized banks may export rub le bankno tes to the ir branches abroad. Exports of rub le banknotes by other j u r i d i c al persons are prohibited. Effec t ive February 27, 2002, resident and nonresident natural persons may export foreign currency bankno tes in a l ump sum up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 w i thout p rov id ing documen ta ry ev idence of the source of the funds (prev ious ly, $1,000). Add i t iona l ly, a lump - sum export of fo re ign cu r rency bankno tes up to the equ iv a l ent of $3,000 was ex- empted f rom customs dec la ra t ion. Amoun ts exceed ing the equ iva lent of $10,000 may be exported by resident na tural persons only up to the amount previously imported, as indi- cated in the cus toms dec la ra t ion (Federal Law No. 28-FZ). Res ident and non re s ident n a t u r al persons may import rub le banknotes up to 500 times the m i n im um wage established in the Russian Federation. M i l i ta ry personnel and employees of Russ ian forces s ta t ioned abroad and t rave l ing to the Russian Federation on leave or to a new du ty post, and m i l i t a ry personnel d ischarged to the reserve status from service abroad and t rave l ing to the Russian Federation may import rubles up to the amounts indicated in the in fo rma t ion b u l l e t i ns of f ie ld o f f ices of the BOR. Refugees en te r ing the Russ ian Fed- eration may import rub le banknotes in the amount of 500 times the m in imum wage estab- l i shed by the governmen t; amoun ts above t h is l im it may be imported on ly w i th documen- ta ry ev idence of the source of the f u n ds that has been ce r t i f ied by the consu lar services of the M in i s t ry of Foreign A f fa i rs of the Russian Federation. Resident ju r id i c al persons se l l ing goods and services to in terna t ional travelers may freely impo rt r u b le banknotes. The BOR may impo rt r u b le banknotes w i t h o ut l im i ts on the basis of re levant documen ts. Au tho r ized banks may impo rt rub le bankno tes f rom non res ident banks w i th wh ich they ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 790 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Foreign currency maintain correspondent branch accounts and from the ir own branches abroad. Import of rub le banknotes by other jur id ical persons is prohibited. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency that residents and nonresident may transfer and import into the Russian Federation, provided that customs regu la t ions are ob- served. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents may open foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks w i thout restriction. Residents may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th banks outside the Russian Federa- t ion with approval from the BOR. Resident authorized banks licensed by the BOR to engage in operations in rubles and for- eign currency may maintain correspondent accounts with nonresident banks. Resident credit organizations may open accounts to f inance activities of the ir representative offices with nonresident banks after meeting no t if ica t ion requirements. Foreign branches of authorized banks may freely maintain accounts with nonresident banks if regulations on their activities as stipulated by their parent banks permit such operations. Authorized banks must obtain BOR approval to open accounts. Resident jur id ical persons (that are not credit organizations) may, by meeting no t i f ica t ion requirements, transfer foreign currency for purposes of opening and maintaining at non- resident banks of countries whose currencies are not free ly convertible in accordance with Russian legislation accounts to be used for performing settlements for construction and contractor work. Resident jur id ical persons, with the exception of budgetary organizations, may open at nonresident banks of any country accounts in foreign currency to service ac t iv i t ies of the ir representative offices. In all other cases resident ju r id ical persons or their foreign branches that are not credit or- ganizations may open accounts with nonresident banks on ly with BOR approval. Resident natural persons may ma in ta in accounts abroad dur ing the period of the ir stay out- side the Russian Federation. At the end of the stay, they may close such accounts and trans- fer balances (or import them into the Russian Federation in the form of foreign exchange banknotes in accordance with customs rules) to the Russian Federation unless a d i f fe rent arrangement is approved by the BOR. Resident natural persons may, by observing notification procedures, open accounts at banks outside the Russian Federation if they are situated in the member countries of the OECD or FATF on the condition that resources credited to them w i ll not be used for commercial purposes. BOR approval is required in other cases. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Accounts may be opened w i thout restrictions. Nonresident juridical persons may open and maintain seven types of accounts. (1) four categories of "S" accounts, which are (i) conversion accounts, whose balances are con- vertible into foreign currency; ( i i) investment accounts, whose balances may not be converted into foreign currency; (iii) transit accounts, which are used for transferring ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 791 balances f rom "S" (investment) accounts to "S" (conversion) accounts, in which case the m in imum time period funds must remain in them is set by the BOR —currently 30 days; and (iv) project accounts, whose resources are used for domestic investments, which re- qu i re BOR permission ( funds credited to project accounts may be transferred free ly to "S" (conversion) accounts and converted in to foreign currency); (2) "K" accounts, whose bal- ances may be converted in to foreign currency; (3) "N" accounts, whose balances may be converted into foreign currency not less than 365 days after presentation of a currency pur- chase order to an authorized bank; and (4) "F" accounts, which may be freely opened by nonresident natural persons and whose balances may be freely converted into foreign currency. "K," UN," and "F" accounts may be free ly opened at authorized banks. "S" accounts may be free ly opened only at authorized banks that have special approval of the BOR to main- tain these accounts. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign currency with balances in "K," "F," and "S" (conversion) accounts. The purchase of foreign currency f rom "N" accounts is permit- ted after 365 days fo l low ing the submission by a nonresident of a purchase order for the currency concerned, and f rom transit accounts to "S" (conversion) accounts —(effective February 25, 2003) after 30 days from the date foreign exchange is credited to the transit accounts (Order No. 1253-U). Convertible into foreign currency On ly funds in "F," "K," "N," and "S" (conversion) accounts may be converted. Conversion and repatriation of funds from "N" accounts are permitted after 365 days. Approval required Blocked accounts The open ing of project accounts by non res iden ts requires pr ior approval. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Advance import deposits In accordance w i th the procedures established by the BOR, residents may make advance payments for imports of goods, services, and in te l lec tual property for a period of up to 90 days w i thout res tr ic t ion, and in excess of 90 days w i th BOR approval (these operations are classified under fore ign exchange legislation as foreign exchange operations associated w i th capital transactions), w i th the exception of those specified by legislation. Effec t ive October 1, 2002, prepayments for imports of foods tu f fs and f in ished products from Latvia for a period exceeding 180 days are permitted w i th BOR approval (Directive of the Bank of Russia No. R-469). E f fec t ive December 17, 2002, when acqu i r ing foreign exchange for making payments un- der contracts s t ipu la t ing importation of goods prior to the ir shipment into the Russian Fed- e ra t ion, importers are requ ired to place w i th an authorized bank a deposit of 20% (prior to th is date 100%) in domestic currency unless they satisfy the following conditions (Order of the Bank of Russ ia No. 1223-U): (1) an irrevocable letter of credit covered at the expense of the payer, on the cond i t ion that the issu ing bank is either a Russian authorized bank w i th a general l icense f rom the BOR or a fo re ign bank mee t ing cr i ter ia established by the BOR; (2) a gua ran tee issued to a res ident j u r i d i c al person by a foreign bank and meeting criteria established by the BOR; (3) a contract to cover the r isk of foreign currency transferred by a res ident j u r i d i c al person; (4) a promissory note issued by a nonresident that is the contract- ing party of a res ident j u r i d i c al person under the agreement for the import of goods on be- ha lf of that res ident j u r i d i c al person and secured by a foreign bank, and meeting criteria es tab l ished by the BOR; and (5) BOR approva l. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports To purchase foreign currency to make prepayment for imports, the importer must present to the i s su ing bank the fo re ign currency purchase order approved by the MOF if the amount of the advance payment for the import exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Letters of credit Settlements may be made w i th LCs, but th is is not mandatory. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 792 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Import licenses and other nontariff measures Private imports of ethyl alcohol are prohibited. Licenses are required for imports of various a lcoho l ic products, as we ll as dua l -use items, m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t, med ic ine, industrial waste, and ozone-depleting substances. Nega t ive l i st Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Most customs d u t i es range f rom 5% to 16%, but 25-30% du t ies are lev ied on a few sensi- t ive goods. The f o l l ow i ng products are exempt f rom du t ies: in su l in and some other phar- maceu t ica l s, p r in ted ma te r ia ls, co t ton and cotton wastes, some an imal species, new dia- monds, whee lcha irs, works of art, co l lec t ib les, and an t iques. Imports of goods on the approved l ist from deve lop ing countries are subject to a customs du ty that is 75% of the app l icab le rate. On J u ly 1, 2002, the Law on Protective Measures on Foreign Trade came i n to effec t. In accordance w i th th is law, e f fec t ive August 20, 2002, a temporary special d u ty of 5% was imposed on imports of bu t ter from all coun tr ies except Belarus. This du ty was removed, e f f e c t ive December 17, 2002. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Su r render r e q u i r em e n ts Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds from exports received by residents must be credited in f u ll to their foreign exchange accoun ts opened w i th au tho r ized banks. E f fec t ive October 1, 2002, deferral of rece ip ts f rom exports of energy, non fe r rous metals, and other raw ma ter ia ls to the Repub l ic of Latvia for a period exceeding 180 days was permitted w i th BOR approval (Directive of the Bank of Ru s s ia No. R-469). E f fec t ive December 31, 2002, foreign exchange proceeds were pe rm i t ted to rema in in the accoun ts of residents or th i rd parties with banks outside the Russ ian Federation if they were received f rom the export of goods, work, services, or intel- lec tual property up to the amount necessary for execu t ion of the ob l iga t ions of residents und er credit agreements w i th non res ident organ iza t ions that are agents of governments of OECD member states (Federal Law No. 192-FZ). A su r render r equ i r em ent of 50% is app l ied to proceeds from exports of goods, services, and in te l lec tual property of residents, and must be effected w i th in seven days of the date the fore ign exchange proceeds have been credited to the exporter's account at an authorized bank. Res iden ts may su r render fore ign exchange proceeds from exports of goods through se rv ic ing au tho r ized banks on in terbank cu r rency exchanges, the over-the-counter (OTC) in t e rb ank market, the BOR (w i th the approval of the Foreign Exchange Operations of the BOR), or, e f fec t ive December 1, 2002, d i rec t ly th rough the authorized bank serv ic ing the res ident (Order of the Bank of Russ ia No. 1192-U). Res iden ts are exempt f rom the surrender requ i rement to retain amoun ts necessary to dis- charge ob l iga t ions under credit agreements with nonresident organizations that are agents of gove rnmen ts of OECD member coun t r ie s. Financing requirements Documentat ion requ iremen ts No. No. Letters of credit Export licenses W i th quo tas Export taxes O ther export taxes Settlements may be made w i th LCs, but th is is not mandatory. Export l i c e n s i ng is l im i t ed to goods on a l i st approved by the government, i n c l u d i ng m i l i- ta ry e q u i pm e nt and arms, p rec ious metals and stones, rare animals and plant species, dua l- use items, e thyl sp i r i ts and a lcoho l ic products, and goods and services exported in accor- dance w i th in te rna t ional ob l iga t ions. Licenses are issued by the MEDT in accordance w i th established procedures. Yes. Expo rt taxes are lev ied on 162 items, and the rate for most of them is 6.5%, w i th a max i- mum rate of 50% for non fe r rous scrap. A number of goods are subject to specific duties, i n c l u d i ng c rude o il and p e t ro l eum produc ts. Certain goods are taxed by combined duties. On Feb rua ry 14, 2002, d u t i es on (1) wood logs, whe ther or not stripped or squared; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 793 (2) many forms of paper and paperboard; and (3) unwrought or semimanufactured gold and gold dust were e l im in a t ed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for i n v i s i b le transactions and current transfers by residents are considered current fore ign exchange opera t ions under the leg is la t ion of the Russ ian Federation and they are not subject to restrictions. The fo l low ing are considered payments for inv is ib le current operations and current trans- fers by residents: (1) transfers abroad of foreign currency for the performance of settle- ments for exports and imports of work, services, and in te l lec tual property w i th a deferral of payment period of up to 90 days; (2) transfers abroad of interest, d iv idends, and other income f rom deposits, investments, credits, and other operations associated w i th capital transactions; and (3) transfers of a noncommercial nature to and from the Russian Federation. Se t t lemen ts associated w i th insurance and re insu rance con t r ibu t ions and payments effected wh i le the re levant agreement is in force may be effected f ree ly on the condition that such agreements w i ll not be in force more than f ive years. Transfers abroad of fore ign currency in payment for rental by residents from non res iden ts of air, sea, and r iver vessels and space equ ipmen t, as well as other real property located outside the Russian Federation, w i th the exception of transfers for payments of monetary ins t rumen ts and other debt ob l iga t ions, may be made f ree ly when the aforementioned ob- jec ts are rented no later than 180 days af ter the transfer of the foreign currency regardless of the rental period. If the aforementioned objects are rented more than 180 days after the transfer date of the foreign currency, regardless of the ren tal period, BOR approval is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Rece ip ts of d iv idend s, in teres t, and p ro f it by res iden ts f rom non res iden ts abroad that are not credit organizations must be credited to foreign exchange accounts of residents opened with authorized banks. Res iden ts may f r e e ly cred it to accounts of non res ident banks fore ign exchange proceeds received from exports of services and intellectual property in amounts necessary to dis- charge ob l iga t ions und er credit agreements w i th non res iden ts that are agents of OECD member coun t r ies. Au tho r ized banks pa r t ic ipa t ing in the statutory capital of nonres ident credit organizations must credit dividends due to them to their correspondent accounts, with the exception of the portion used to rep len ish the statutory capital of that non res ident credit organization. F i f ty percent of proceeds from exports of services and intellectual property are subject to the surrender r equ i r em en t, wh ich may be effected th rough a serv ic ing au thor ized bank of in te rbank cu r rency exchange, the OTC in te rbank market, the BOR (with the approval of the Foreign Exchange Operations Department of the BOR), or, effective September 5, 2002, d i rec t ly t h r o u gh the au tho r ized bank se rv ic ing the res ident (Order of the Bank of Russ ia No. 1192-U). Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secu r i t ies Res ident j u r i d i c al persons that are not cred it o rgan iza t ions may f ree ly c red it to the ir fore ign exchange accoun ts ma in ta ined w i th au thor ized banks fore ign currency received f rom ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities nonresidents in payments for stocks upon their primary placement and in the event of an increase in capital. Nonresidents may acquire stocks of resident credit organizations with BOR approval. Acqu is i t ion by nonresidents of securities issued by residents and acqu is i t ion by residents of securities issued by nonresidents require notification to the Federal Securities Market Commission of the Russian Federation (FKRTsB of Russia). Residents may free ly transfer to nonresidents on the organized market securities denomi- nated in foreign currency through authorized banks for foreign currency, on the condition that registration of the rights to these securities and the ir safekeeping are effected by resi- dent professional securities market participants with a license to engage in depository ac- t iv i t ies. If any of the above-listed conditions is not met, the transfer is subject to BOR approval. Authorized banks may free ly sell securities to nonresidents for foreign currency on the ir own behalf and on the behalf of clients. Nonresidents may acquire w i thout restrictions securities issued by residents with funds in "K" accounts. The BOR has established the fo l low ing list of securities that may be acquired by nonresi- dents with funds in "S" accounts: (1) stocks of Russian issuers (with the exception of credit organizations) included in the first-level quotation sheet of the Trading Organizers; and (2) stocks of credit organizations where payment is effected in accordance with Order of the Bank of Russia No. 571-U of 1999. In i t ial placement or trading of securities issued by nonresidents on the domestic market is allowed after their prospectus is registered with the FKRTsB. These securities must be denominated in rubles. Nonresidents may sell securities denominated in rubles for rubles w i thout restrictions (when the above requirements are met), as well as securities denominated in foreign ex- change for foreign exchange. Foreign exchange proceeds to nonresidents from the sale of securities are credited to for- eign exchange accounts opened with authorized banks, and ruble receipts from sales of securities issued by residents are credited to "K" or "S" accounts. Resident juridical persons may purchase securities only with BOR authorization. Resident natural persons may purchase securities abroad w i thout approval of the BOR in amounts not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 during a calendar year through accounts w i th au- thorized banks for the purpose of acquiring rights to foreign currency-denominated securi- ties; transfers of amounts exceeding this l im it must be reported to the tax authorities. Au- thorization from the BOR is required for these transactions. Authorization from the FKRTsB is required to issue or sell domestic securities abroad. A BOR permit is required for sales of securities for foreign exchange by residents abroad and for transfers of proceeds from their domestic sale. Proceeds must be transferred to current foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks. Resident natural persons may, in the course of one calendar year, transfer foreign currency to the Russian Federation in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 from the sale of securities abroad. BOR approval is required for amounts exceeding th is limit. Nonresidents may purchase and sell in the Russian Federation the fo l low ing debt securities issued by residents: (1) government short-term zero-coupon bonds (GKOs); (2) federal loan bonds (OFZs); (3) government nonmarket bonds (OGNZs) and government savings bonds; (4) bonds of the territories of the Russian Federation with a long-term credit rating from one of the international rating companies (Moody's, Standard and Poor's, Fitch IBCA, Thomson Bank Watch) that is not more than two levels below the sovereign rating of the Russian Federation; (5) corporate bonds of Russian issuers (with the exception of credit organizations) with a long-term credit ra t ing from one of the international rating companies that is not more than two levels below the sovereign rating of the Russian Federation; and (6) other debt securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 795 Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Non res iden ts may purchase f rom residents debt secur i t ies denominated in foreign exchange w i th fore ign exchange with BOR approval. Nonresidents may freely purchase domestic securities with funds from "K" and "N" accounts. The BOR establishes the l ist of securities that may be acqu ired by nonres iden ts from residents, together w i th the ir requirements thereon. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts The regu la t ions govern ing shares of other secur i t ies of a participating na ture apply, except for transac t ions us ing "N" and "S" accounts. Purchase abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing shares of other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issues and sales abroad of debt securities issued by residents require FKRTsB permission. BOR approval is required for the transfer of resources received by residents from the placement of bond loans on in terna t ional f in an c i al markets. Resident natural persons may f ree ly pu rchase f rom accounts opened with banks outside the Russian Federation debt securities in amoun ts not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 in a calendar year by n o t i f y i ng the tax au thor i t ies. Receipts in fore ign currency from the sale abroad by residents to nonresidents of debt secu- r i t ies must be cred i ted to foreign exchange accounts of residents with authorized banks. On money market ins t rumen ts The regu la t ions govern ing capital market secu r i t ies apply. On co l lec t ive investment secu r i t ies The regu la t ions govern ing shares or other secur i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases of derivatives with foreign exchange are permitted with prior BOR authorization. The purchase of de r iva t ives w i th rub les may be carried out free ly through "K" and "N" accounts. Foreign exchange receipts of nonresidents from these operations may be transferred abroad free ly. Sales proceeds in rub les must be credited to "N" accounts of nonresidents with au- thorized banks. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are permitted w i th prior BOR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Sales are permitted with prior BOR authorization. The transfer of proceeds from sales re- qu i res prior BOR au tho r iza t ion, and proceeds must be credited to current foreign exchange accounts of residents with authorized banks. Advance payment for impor ts and deferral of receipts f rom exports for a period of more than 90 days is perm i t ted w i th BOR approval. The fo l low ing transactions are not subject to control: (1) se t t lemen ts for exports of certain types of mechan ical eng inee r ing products, on the condition that the repayment period of foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of the goods for export does not exceed three years from the date the goods actually cross the customs border of the Russ ian Federation; and (2) settlements for construction and contrac- tor work performed by residents outside the Russian Federation where the period for pay- ment exceeds 90 days, in accordance w i th the terms of the contracts that have been exe- cu ted, on the cond i t ion that the repayment period of foreign exchange proceeds for the cons t ruc t ion and con trac tor work performed does not exceed five years f rom the date the contract was execu ted. Au tho r ized banks may f ree ly ex tend f i n a n c i al credits to nonres iden ts in foreign currency and in rub les regardless of t h e ir ma tu r i ty. Res ident j u r i d i c al persons may f ree ly extend loans in fo re ign cu r rency to non re s iden ts for a period of up to 180 days and for terms ex- ceeding 180 days a f ter no t i fy ing the BOR. Res ident j u r i d i c al persons may f ree ly extend loans to non re s iden ts in rub les us ing "N" accounts of the nonres iden ts. Non r e s id ent banks may f r e e ly ex tend cred i ts to au thor ized banks in fore ign currency. Non- residents may f ree ly extend loans and credits to resident ju r id ical persons in foreign cur- rency for any pe r iod, w i th the excep t ion of loans in foreign currency placed by resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent Inw a rd d i rect inv e s tm ent j u r i d i c al persons on in te rna t ional f in an c i al markets and of credits obtained by resident ju- r id ical persons from non res iden ts in fore ign currency w i thout c red i t ing them to the ir for- eign exchange accoun ts w i th authorized banks. Non r e s id en ts may f r e e ly ex tend loans to res iden ts in rub les u s ing "K" and "N" accounts. D irect inve s tmen ts by au thor ized banks h o l d i ng a general license of the BOR in the statu- tory capital of banks that are not th e ir own sub s id ia r ies and that operate in OECD and FATF countries and in Belarusian banks may be undertaken with BOR notification; those in other coun t r ies r equ i re BOR approval. E f fec t ive March 7, 2003, the no t i f ica t ion proce- du res for au tho r ized banks to engage in transfers to the R epub l ic of Belarus for participa- t ion in the s ta tu to ry capital of Be la rus ian banks were introduced (Order of the Bank of Ru s s ia No. 217-P). D irect inves tmen ts in the statutory capital of resident ju r id i c al persons that are not credit organizations may take place freely, but those in the statutory capital of credit organizations requ i re BOR approva l. D irect inves tmen ts up to $10 m i l l i on or its equ iva lent by resident j u r i d i c al persons that are not credit organ iza t ions in CIS coun tr ies may take place subject to no t i f ica t ion to the au- thor ized bank. Inves tmen ts exceeding that amount requ i re BOR approval. D irect inve s tmen ts in the statutory capital by n o n fm a n c i al enterprises are allowed freely, but inve s tmen ts by f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions r equ i re BOR approval. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases requ ire BOR authorization, w i th a few exceptions. Controls on personal cap ital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions spec if ic to commerc ial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions M a in t en an ce of accoun ts abroad D i f f e r e n t i al t r e a tm ent of depos it accoun ts in fo re ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credits w i th m a t u r i t i es exceed ing 180 days may be extended only w i th prior BOR au tho r iza t ion. Cred i ts w i th m a t u r i t i es exceed ing 180 days may be extended on ly w i th pr ior BOR au tho r iza t ion. Sanc t ions are imposed on au tho r ized banks v i o l a t i ng repo r t ing requ i remen ts on foreign exchange t ransac t ions. E f fec t ive March 31, 2003, La tv ia was deleted f rom the l ist of off- shore coun t r ies (Order of the Bank of Russ ia No. 1265-U). Au tho r ized banks may open correspondent accounts w i th banks abroad pu rsuant to the terms specified in the b ank ing l icen se issued by the BOR. The open ing of other types of accounts w i th banks abroad requires prior authorization from the BOR. L e n d i ng i n s t i t u t i o ns are requ i red to m a i n t a in w i th the BOR a 10% and 7% reserve requ ire- ment aga inst fo re ign exchange and local currency deposits, respectively, of res ident natural persons. For j u r i d i c al persons the reserve requ i rement is 10% for both local and foreign exchange deposits. The requ i red reserve ba lance is reduced by the amount of rub le cash ba lances these i n s t i t u t i o ns m a i n t a in in t h e ir cash department. Accoun ts of in terbank obliga- t i o n s — i n c l u d i ng accoun ts of borrow ings by l e n d i ng in s t i tu t ions on the interbank credit marke t, loans (deposits), and accoun ts of correspondent lend ing in s t i tu t ions and nonresi- dent banks (loro accounts) —are not inc luded in the ca lcu la t ion of requ i red reserves. For the purpose of m o n i t o r i ng l i q u i d i ty of c red it organizations the BOR has established l i q u i d i ty norms, w h i ch are de te rm ined as the ra t io of assets and l i ab i l i t i es of credit organi- za t ions, t a k i ng in to con s ide ra t ion ma tu r i t ie s, amoun ts, and types of assets and l i ab i l i t i es and o ther fac tors, as w e ll as the ra t io of l i q u id assets to total assets of credit organizations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 797 Cred it organ iza t ions are not subject to the measures s t ipu la ted by federal laws for the ir noncomp l iance w i th norm N5 in instances where the resu l ts of a comprehensive analysis of the l iqu id i ty of a credit organization do not indicate shortcomings in the status and/or man- agement of l iqu id i ty. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts he ld by non res iden ts Reserve requirements Reserve requ i remen ts are s im i lar to those applied to residents. Liquid asset requirements L iqu id i ty requ irement are s im i lar to those applied to residents. Interest rate controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Yes. E f fec t ive December 10, 2002, au thor ized banks w i th general license of the BOR were allowed to t rans fer fore ign exchange balances to banks in the FATF, OECD member coun- tr ies, and Be la rus, for purposes of pa r t ic ipa t ing in the ir statutory capital, with BOR no t i f i- ca t ion and to o ther coun t r ies w i th BOR approval (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 1220-U). Non re s iden ts may unde r take inves tmen ts in the s ta tu tory capital of resident credit organiza- t ions w i th BOR approval. The open fo re ign exchange position of commercial banks is 20% of capital for all curren- cies and 10% of cap i tal for an ind iv idu al cu r rency and prec ious metals. These limits are calculated on a stock and transac t ion date basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The federal law governing the securities market prohibits discriminatory treatment of non- resident purchases of securities. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 27. The amount of foreign currency a resident or nonresident may export w i thout presentation of proof that it was prev ious ly imported was increased to the equivalent of $10,000. In addition, exports of foreign banknotes in an amount up to the equivalent of $3,000 were exempted f rom customs declaration (Federal Law No. 28-FZ). Imports and import payments August 20. A temporary special du ty of 5% was imposed on imports of butter from all countries except Belarus. Exports and export proceeds October 1. Prepayments for imports of foodstuffs and finished products from Latvia for a period exceeding 180 days were permitted w i th BOR approval (Directive of the Bank of Russia No. R-469). December 17. The 5% tempo ra ry special du ty on imports of bu t ter from all coun t r ies was removed. December 17. The amount of the r u b le deposit to be opened by an importer w i th the exe- c u t i ng bank was reduced f rom 100% to 20% (Order of the Bank of Russ ia No. 1223-U). February 14. The 6.5% export du ty on wood logs (stripped or squared), many forms of paper and paperboard, and unw rought or sem imanu fac tu red gold and gold dust was e l im in a t ed. October I. Deferral of receipts from exports of energy, nonferrous metals, and other raw ma te r ia ls to the R epub l ic of La tv ia for a period exceed ing 180 days was permitted w i th BOR approval (D i r e c t ive of the Bank of Ru s s ia No. R-469). December I. The requ ired surrender by residents of foreign exchange proceeds from ex- por ts of goods was a l lowed to be effec ted th rough a se rv ic ing au thor ized bank on in terbank cu r rency exchanges, the OTC in t e rb ank marke t, the BOR (w i th the approval of the Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Exchange Operations Department of the BOR), or directly through the authorized bank servicing the resident (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 1192-U). December 31. Foreign exchange proceeds were permitted to remain in the accounts of resi- dents or third parties with banks outside the Russian Federation if they were received from the export of goods, work, services, or in te l lec tual property up to the amount necessary for execu t ion of the ob l iga t ions of residents under credit agreements w i th nonresident organi- zations that are agents of governments of OECD member states (Federal Law No. 192-FZ). September 5. The requ ired surrender by residents of foreign exchange proceeds from ex- ports of services was allowed to be effected through a servicing authorized bank on inter- bank currency exchanges, the OTC in te rbank market, the BOR (with the approval of the Foreign Exchange Operations Department of the BOR), or d irec t ly through the authorized bank servicing the resident (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 1192-U). December 10. Au tho r ized banks with general license of the BOR were allowed to transfer foreign exchange balances to banks in the FATF, OECD member countries, and Belarus for purposes of par t ic ipa t ing in the ir statutory capital w i th BOR no t if ica t ion and to other coun- tries with BOR approval (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 1220-U). Changes During 2003 January 1. The 1% tax on purchases by resident natural persons of foreign currencies and foreign payments instruments in foreign currency was abolished. February 25. The purchase of foreign exchange with balances in transition accounts to "S" (conversion) accounts was permitted 30 days af ter foreign exchange is credited to the tran- s i t ion account (Order No. 1253-U). March 7. The no t i f ica t ion procedures for authorized banks to engage in transfers to the Repub l ic of Belarus for participation in the statutory capital of Belarusian banks were in- troduced (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 217-P). Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Exchange arrangement Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 31. Latvia was deleted f rom the list of offshore countries (Order of the Bank of Rus- sia No. 1265-U). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined on the foreign exchange market, with the authorities intervening to influence the rate. A foreign exchange auction system is in effect. Banks may apply a variable commission to exchange operations. The National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) does not announce o f f ic ial exchange rates, but it calculates and pub- lishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market A forward exchange market has been established, but it is not yet functioning. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Banknotes and coins issued by the NBR are the only legal tender, but payments with for- eign banknotes are permitted. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The NBR maintains agreements with the central banks of the CEPGL countries. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through the COMESA clearinghouse, which is currently being restructured. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMESA are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible currencies. Rwanda is also a member of RIFF. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists with Uganda, but it is not operational. Administration of control Foreign exchange control authority is vested in the NBR, which has delegated authority to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade is restricted to dealers who are approved by the relevant ministry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require a declaration. 799 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 800 RWANDA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts A dec lara t ion is requ i red for exports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer may be exported freely. Foreign exchange declared to customs on entry in to the coun try may be reexported upon presenta- t ion of the dec lara t ion documen ts. Domestic currency Dec la ra t ion is requ i red for the import of banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of $ 100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign cu r rency w i thd rawa ls exceeding the equ iva lent of $50,000 a year requ ire support- ing do cum en t a t ion. He ld dom e s t i c a l ly Held abroad Yes. Permission is requ ired to open and ma in ta in these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Suppor t ing documen ta t ion is requ ired for deposits of foreign currency by residents and non res iden ts, and deposits from non res iden ts' or residents' domestic and/or foreign cur- rency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports P r e sh ipm ent in spec t ion Impor ts are gene ra l ly paid for after de l ive ry. However, authorized banks may make ad- vance payments upon the presentation of supporting documentation showing that such payment is needed. They may also sell up to the equ iva lent of $50,000 in foreign exchange to importers who request th is for imports of goods and services, w i th supporting documents to be presented la ter; such transactions must be settled by check or bank transfer. Impo r ts w i th an f.o.b. va lue of the e q u i v a l e nt of $5,000 or more ($3,000 for fresh food- s tu f fs and pharmaceu t ica ls) and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an in terna t ional agency w i th regard to the quality, quan t i ty, price, and customs tariff of the goods be fo re they are shipped to Rwanda, un le ss otherwise provided by the NBR. Import licenses used as exchange l icen ses Yes. Other Imports w i th an f.o.b. va lue of the equ iva lent of $5,000 or more ($3,000 for fresh food- s tu f fs and pha rmaceu t ica ls) are sub ject to a bank import dec lara t ion. These declarations mu st be accompan ied by a pro forma invo ice stating the f.o.b. va lue of the merchandise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist RWANDA 801 All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, requ i re pr ior approval f rom the re levant au tho r i t ies, regardless of o r ig in and va lue. For reasons of hea l th, the impor ta t ion of human or ve te r ina ry medicines, d is in fec- tants, in sec t ic ide s, rodent po isons, fung ic ide s, he rb ic ides, and other tox ic or po ten t ia l ly tox ic chem ica ls is subject to the approval of the re levant pro forma invo ices by the M in i s t ry of Hea l th. Open general l icenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs In addition to customs du ty, a file-processing charge equal to 0.67% of the f.o.b. value of imported general merchandise is levied, when imports are declared, to cover costs incurred by the inspection agency. This rate is increased to 0.87% for pharmaceutical products and fresh foodstuffs. In both cases, the m i n im um payment is set at the equivalent of $180. Con sump t ion taxes of 57% on malted beer; 10% on powdered m i lk and mineral water; and 5% on gasoline-powered veh ic les other than passenger veh ic les, trucks, or p ickup trucks, of horsepower lower than 1,500 cm3, are lev ied. (Veh ic les w i th horsepower varying between 1,500 cm3 and 2,500 cm3, or 2,500 cm3 and above, pay consump t ion taxes of 10% and 15%, respec t ive ly .) The m a x im um import ta r i ff is 30%, and the intermediate rates are 5% and 15%. Most capi- tal goods are exempted f rom ta r i f f. Between Janua ry 1 and December 31, 2002, ta r i f fs for imports from COMESA mem- bers were reduced by 80%. In accordance w i th Law 52-12-2001, the percentage of this reduction was increased to 90% on Janua ry 1, 2003, and it w i ll be increased to 100% on January 1, 2004. On Augu st 26, 2002, the import ta r i ff s t ruc tu re was revised, and the rate on f in ished prod- uc ts was increased to 30% f rom 25% of the c . i . f. va lue. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, proceeds must be repa tr ia ted w i t h in 90 days of the sh ipment date (p rev ious ly, seven bus iness days). They may be he ld in th e ir en t i re ty in fore ign exchange accoun ts m a in t a in ed by the exporter at local au tho r ized banks or sold on the fore ign ex- change marke t. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, a bank export dec lara t ion form is requ ired for exports exceeding the e q u i v a l e nt of $10,000. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Au tho r ized banks are permitted to transfer fore ign exchange w i thout restriction to cover payment of the fo l low ing inv i s ib le transactions on terms defined by each bank: dividends; salaries of directors and managers and professional fees; copyrights and royalties; mer- chandise repa ir costs; interest payments on credit cards to foreign companies; reinsurance premiums; re imbursemen ts of expenses owed to foreign a i r l ine companies; advertising costs; rental and leasing costs; maritime, road, and air transportation and transit costs; sub- scription fees for newspapers, periodicals, and membership in trade organizations and pro- fessional associations; and costs of correspondence courses and books. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 RWANDA Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Effec t ive January 1, 2003, the maximum tourism allowance is $5,000 or its equivalent a person a trip (previously, $4,000). In the case of business travel, the maximum amount is $10,000 a person a year. There is no limit on the number of trips that may be taken. Payment of pensions requires NBR approval. Yes. Effec t ive January 1, 2003, authorized banks may transfer free ly foreign exchange for medi- cal care to be received by Rwandese residents on presentation of invoices or estimates for care received (previously, the l im it was $20,000). In the case of estimates, authorized banks must requ i re their customers to present final invoices at the end of treatment. Authorized banks may sell a max imum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currency to residents undergoing medical treatment abroad, or to any person accompanying them, to cover living expenses. In addition, authorized banks may transfer foreign exchange abroad without re- striction (previously, the limit was $25,000) for educational expenses of Rwandese resi- dents or persons in their charge on presentation of a letter of acceptance, or certificate of attendance for the period indicated, from a recognized educational institution, and a de- tailed description of required fees— in particular tu i t ion, rent, or purchases of books and other supplies. Residents may also transfer up to a maximum of $25,000 a year or its equivalent in another currency to cover the accommodation and subsistence costs of a Rwandese student abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Au thor ized banks may approve salary and wage transfers of expatriates working in Rwanda up to a max imum of 70% of the ir net remuneration after payments of taxes and social secu- rity con tr ibu t ions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months of receipt and sold in the domestic for- eign exchange market, or be held in foreign exchange accounts with authorized local banks. Any delay must be reported to the NBR. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Currently, on ly the money market is operational, and transactions are governed by the rele- vant business law provisions. In addition, requests by nonresidents for treasury note sub- scr ip t ions must be subm i t ted to the NBR. Requests for interest payments and proceeds from sales of treasury notes to nonres iden ts are approved by the NBR on presentation of ade- qua te proof that the reques t ing party is the ho lde r. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 803 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may participate in the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale proceeds must be repatriated. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment NBR approval is required for residents to receive loans from nonresidents for business purposes. After approval, the NBR issues a registration certificate. Authorized banks may effect repayment of a foreign exchange loan from a nonresident to a resident on presenta- tion of a copy of the loan agreement and the loan registration certificate issued by the NBR. NBR approval is required for all of these transactions. NBR approval is required. NBR approval is required, Outward direct investment NBR approval is required. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign direct investment in Rwanda and the purchase of Rwandese shares by nonresident foreigners are not restricted, but must be registered with the NBR. Subsequent repatriation of current investment income and net proceeds from the transfer or liquidation of capital invested with foreign exchange originating abroad may be free ly ef- fected by authorized banks. Banks must require their customers to produce the registration certificate issued by the NBR, and all information and supporting documentation required by the NBR. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Proof of transfer of the funds to Rwanda is required at the time of payment. G i f t s, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 804 RWANDA Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets NBR approval is requ ired, Transfer abroad by emigrants NBR approval is requ i red. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Bo r row ing abroad Borrow ing is a l lowed. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Authorized banks may open accounts abroad and maintain credit balances in accordance with pruden t ial rules established by the NBR on the limits on foreign exchange holdings. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) NBR approval is required, D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks are required to deposit foreign exchange reserves with the NBR with respect to their off-balance-sheet foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies expressed in dollars. Inves tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 20% of a bank 's capital and reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments August 26. The import tar iff on f in ished products was increased to 30% of the c.i.f. value from 25%. December 31. Tariffs on imports from COMES A members were reduced by 80%. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January I. Tar iffs on imports from COMESA members were reduced by 90%. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Proceeds were r equ i r ed to be repatriated w i t h in 90 days of sh ipment date, and proceeds exceeding the equ iva lent of $10,000 were subjected to export declaration forms. Payments for inv i s ib le transactions and current transfers January I. L im i ts on t rans fe rs of fo re ign exchange for medical treatment abroad as well as for educa t ional expenses were l i f t ed. January I. Tour ist travel a l lowances were increased to the equ iva lent of $5,000 from $4,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at legal tender ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. Kitts and Nevis is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted U.S. dollar accounts may be operated free ly, but permission of the MOF is required to op- erate other foreign currency accounts. Held domestically Approval required Yes. These accounts may be credited only w i th foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be debited free ly. A m in imum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Permission is norma l ly granted only to major exporters. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. 805 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts is normally granted only to foreign nation- als whose primary residence is not in St. Kitts and Nevis. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Import payments exceeding EC$25 0,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports payable in foreign currency are permitted on presentation of an invoice to a bank. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Ind iv idual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from CARICOM member countries. Negative list Yes. Open general licenses Most goods are imported under OGLs. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. Kitts and Nevis applies the third phase of the CARICOM CET, and the maximum ex- ternal tariff is 25%. A customs surcharge of 6% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes The Customs Department carries out preshipment inspections. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. How- ever, the regulations governing export licenses are not formally enforced. Yes. Yes. Export duties are levied on a few products. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Prior approval of the MOF is required for all transactions exceeding EC$250,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 807 Yes. Yes. Yes. Profits and dividends may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature I n d i v i d u a ls are permitted to purchase up to EC$250,000 w i thout exchange control ap- p rova l. A ll ou tward cap i tal transfers exceeding th is amount require exchange control app rova l. Pu rcha se l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts An A l i e n 's Land H o l d i ng l icen se is requ i red for purchases of equ i ty shares. Sale or issue lo c a l ly by non r e s id en ts Foreign exchange approval f rom the MOF is requ i red for amoun ts exceed ing EC$250,000. Purchase abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Yes. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On co l l e c t ive inv e s tm ent secu r i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing the sale or issue of capital market secur i t ies by nonres iden ts apply. The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing the sale or issue of cap i tal market secu r i t ies by non res iden ts apply. The r egu l a t ions gove rn ing the sale or issue of cap i tal market secu r i t ies by nonres iden ts app ly. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The seller of the ins t rumen ts must be licensed under the Bank ing Act, and transfers abroad in excess of EC$250,000 requ i re approval from the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations F i n a n c i al c red i ts At presen t, there is no market in de r iva t ives and other ins trumen ts. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% A l i e n 's Loan Levy is required for these transactions. To residents from nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is requ ired for amoun ts exceed ing EC$250,000. Gua ran tees, su re t ies, and f i n a n c i al b a c k up f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is requ i red for amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Ou tward d i r e ct i n v e s tm e nt Fore ign exchange approval f rom the MOF is requ i red for amoun ts exceed ing EC$250,000. Inward d irect inves tment Investments in equ i ty requ i re an A l i en 's Land Ho ld ing license. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of d irect investment The rem i t tance of proceeds f rom the l iqu id a t ion of direct inves tmen ts is permitted, subject to the discharge of any l i ab i l i t i es related to the investment. Transfer of proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requ i res MOF approval. Controls on real estate transact ions P u r c h a se abroad by re s iden ts P u r c h a s i ng real estate abroad for pr iva te purposes is not no rm a l ly perm i t ted. Pu rchase lo c a l ly by non res iden ts Non re s iden ts requ i re an A l i e n 's Land Ho ld ing license to purchase real estate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 809 Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% A l ien 's Loan Levy are required. MOF approval is requ i red, wh ich is granted on ly in the case of projects generating foreign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in for- eign currencies requ i res MOF approval. Locally issued securities must be denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of April 30, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1980. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Unitary. Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements must be made either in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in U.S. dollars. All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. St. Lucia is a member of the CARICOM. The MOF is responsible for policy decisions related to exchange control, and its banking section is responsible for its administration. Commercial banks have been delegated the authority to approve payments and transfers under EC$250,000; in the case of imports with proper customs documen ta t ion, banks may approve transactions for any amount. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. 810 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA Resident Accounts 811 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a lo- cal bank and submission of a customs certificate of entry. Certain agricultural and manufac tured products require individual licenses. There are three types of licenses: (1) goods originating outside the CARICOM and the OECS; (2) goods from these areas; and (3) goods imported directly from non-OECS countries. Manu fac tu red goods originating in the CARICOM and the OECS are exempt from import duties. All imported goods are subject to a consumption tax and a service charge of 5% (prior to April 30, 2003, 4%), except for fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.2%. Live ani- mals, eggs, fish, meat, milk, fertilizers, and most agricultural and manufacturing machinery are exempt from import duties. For non-CARICOM imports, the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET applies at a maximum rate of 20%. State import monopoly The importation of rice, f lou r, and sugar in bu lk form is a state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes ST. LUCIA Export l i c e n s i ng is requ i red for cer ta in p r ima ry products. Yes. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is app l ied to reexports of pe tro leum. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All t ran sac t ions exceed ing EC$250,000 requ i re MOF approval. Trade-related paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Inve s tmen t - re la ted paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for t ravel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. W i th the approval of the MOF, p ro f i ts may be remitted in f u l l, subject to con f i rma t ion by the Comp t ro l ler of In l and Revenue and the Na t ional Insu rance Scheme that l iab i l i t ies have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be h igh, the MOF reserves the r ight to phase rem i t tances over a reasonab le period. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements There is no repa t r ia t ion r equ i r em ent on proceeds of up to EC$250,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 813 Controls on cap ital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market s e cu r i t i es Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by non r e s id en ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On co l lec t ive investment secu r i t ies Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Outward transfers exceeding EC$250,000 requ i re exchange control approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts These t ransac t ions requ i re approval f rom the MOF. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all categories of credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These cred i ts r e q u i re the approval of the MOF. App l ica t ions for non res ident loans are sub- mitted by the au tho r ized dealer (or other f i n a n c i al in te rmed ia ry) to the MOF on behalf of the app l ican t. To residents from nonresidents Yes. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents App roval of the MOF is r equ i r ed, except for loans to non re s ident St. Lu c i an s. App l i c a t ions are subm i t t ed by au tho r i z ed dea le rs on beha lf of the app l ican t. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gua ran tees, su re t ies, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward d i rect inv e s tm ent Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase abroad by res iden ts Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 ST. LUCIA Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Approval is not required for nonresident St. Lucians. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000 requ i re approval for repatriation of estate proceeds. By residents to nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is restricted to Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchase is restricted to securities denominated in Eastern Caribbean do l lars or U.S. dol- lars. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Ins t i tu t ional investors may invest up to 10% of their statutory deposits in government secu- rities of the Commonwealth of Caribbean Nations. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws For every U.S. dollar liability, there must be an equivalent U.S. dollar asset. Funds raised from the issue of securities must be invested locally. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments April 30. The service charge that applies to most imports was increased to 5% from 4%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. V incent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, wh ich is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM may be made in any currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. V incent and the Grenadines is a member of the CARICOM. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all coun tr ies outside the ECCB area. All transactions up to an equivalent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency are allowed without approval from the MOF. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Exchange controls are not applied to payments for authorized imports. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade A mo ra to r ium has been sought on some debt payments re la t ing to shipyards, pend ing set- tlement on issues under dispute w i th creditors. Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold co ins for num isma t ic purposes only, Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for indus tr ial purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n .a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted n .a. Resident Accounts 815 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 816 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n .a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF and credited on ly w i th funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Prior permission of the MOF is required to credit remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments to a foreign currency account by residents. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization from the MOF. The oper- a t ing banks must subm it quar ter ly statements of the accounts to the MOF. App roval requ i red Yes. Domestic currency accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and w i th transfers from other external accounts. Credits and debits to these accounts are subject to the regulations governing foreign exchange accounts. Blocked accounts n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for au thor ized imports are permitted upon application and submission o fdo cu- men tary evidence and, where requ i red, a license. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most goods may be imported freely. Imports of some goods that compete with typical ex- ports of other member coun t r ies of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. Negative l ist Imports of goods that compete w i th loca l ly made products are p roh ib i ted in some cases. Import taxes and/or tariffs In accordance w i th the fou r th phase of the CARICOM CET, the import tar iff rates range f rom zero to 20%. In add i t ion, imports are subject to a consump t ion tax ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the t a r i f f - i n c l u s i ve va lue of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tar iffs and are subject on ly to the con- sump t ion tax. A customs service charge of 4% is imposed on the c.i.f. va lue of all imported goods, with certain exceptions. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses All export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of receipt. n .a. n .a. Spec if ic l icenses are requ i red for the exportation to any destination of some agr icu l tural goods inc luded in the CARICOM marke t ing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Trade, wh ich, in some cases, has delegated its au tho r i ty to the St. V incent Central Marke t ing Corporation. Exports of goats, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 817 Export taxes No. sheep, and lobs ters are sub ject to l i c e n s i ng to prevent dep le t ion of stocks. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for inv i s ib les related to au tho r ized imports are not restricted. Other payments exceed ing EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Approval is granted rou t in e ly. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans or deprec ia t ion of d i rect inves tmen ts. The l im i ts are the e q u i v a l e nt of EC$2,500 a year for t ravel ou t s ide the ECCB area, and EC$6,000 a year for bus iness trave l. Indicative limits/bona fide test These a l loca t ions may be increased w i th the au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Personal paymen ts In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the t ran s fer of f u n ds for pens ions, fam i ly ma in tenance, and a l imony. Other payments The l im it for subscriptions and membership fees is EC$250,000 a transaction. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. n .a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by res iden ts Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts On money market in s t rum en ts Purchase abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments All outward cap i tal t rans fe rs over EC$250,000 r equ i re p r ior approval f rom the MOF. Res iden ts are no rm a l ly not perm i t ted to pu rchase fo re ign cu r rency secu r i t ies abroad for p r iva te purposes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operat ions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 818 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Controls on direct investment Direct investments abroad exceeding EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require approval from the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is permitted, subject to the discharge of liabilities related to the investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Samoa is the Samoa tala. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Samoa's main trading partners —the Australian dollar, the euro, the Fiji dollar, the New Zealand dollar, and the U.S. dollar. The weights are based on the distribu- tion of trade, private remittances, and travel transactions of Samoa. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to ± 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are permitted to make forward exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The domestic use of fore ign currencies is subject to CBS approval. Samoa participates in PACER and PICTA. Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the CBS, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents require the CBS's approval. However, the authorized banks —the ANZ Bank (Samoa) Ltd., the Na t ional Bank of Samoa, and the Pacific Commercial Bank —are empowered to ap- prove certain payments w i thout limits and others up to specified amounts. No. No. No. Residents are allowed to export SAT 2,000 as part of their travel allowance. Samoan res iden ts are allowed to export the equ iva lent of SAT 7,000 in foreign currency. Nonres iden ts may export the amount of fore ign currency they b rought into the country. Amoun ts in excess of the equ iva lent of SAT 10,000 must be declared at the port of entry. 819 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SAMOA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, with the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency deposit accounts with one of the three authorized banks. Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad These accounts may be he ld domestically, but approval is required. These accounts may be he ld abroad, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency CBS approval is requ i red to convert these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments, subject to approval. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Yes. Yes. The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. There are four general rates of duty —zero, 5%, 8% (prior to October 1, 2002, 10%), and 20%. Duties on machinery and agr icu l tural imports are generally 8% or lower, wh i le the duty on motor vehicles is 20%. In addition, an import excise tax is applied to imports of alcohol, soft drinks, tobacco, petro- leum, and passenger cars. Enterprises produc ing for export may receive f u ll or partial ex- emption from du t ies and excise taxes on inpu ts and capital equipment. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system There is a value-added goods and service tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in three months of the date of sh ipmen t, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Presh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas SAMOA 821 wh ich must be surrendered to the authorized bank w i th in four weeks of the date of sh ipmen t. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports r equ i re export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be p roh ib i ted by the D irec tor of Ag r icu l tu re on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to a l lev ia te domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified l im i ts. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, re- qu i re the prior approval of the CBS, which is granted when applications are supported by documentary proof that capital transactions are not involved. The CBS's approval process governing the remittance of inv is ib le payments is concerned only w i th whether a transac- t ion is bona fide. Yes. Yes. Yes. A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on remittances of interest payments on overseas loans and of d iv idends at the source. Informa t ion is not available on payments of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents and expatriates trave l ing overseas are entitled to purchase from commercial banks a fore ign currency allowance equ iva lent to SAT 700 a person a day, subject to a limit of SAT 7,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50% of the adult allowances. Larger amoun ts may be purchased w i th CBS approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. A l though no l im it is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. There is no specific l im it for costs to study abroad, but the amount requested must be supported by documentary evidence con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institu- t ion abroad and costs are in line'with the p reva i l ing costs in the country of study. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 822 SAMOA Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatriated during the contract may be repa- triated at the end of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are specific limits on subscriptions and membership fees, but amounts requested must be supported by documentary evidence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. On their return, resident travelers must sell to banks all unused foreign exchange they bring in. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Most capital transactions (inward and outward) require approval of the CBS. Local money markets have begun to develop, following the introduction of open market operations by the CBS. A capital market in foreign currencies has not yet been developed in Samoa. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 823 On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. No. Controls on credit operations All credit operations requ ire CBS approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments requ ire CBS approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Repatriation of investments requires CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings There are no res tr ic t ions for nonresidents, but residents requ ire approval from the CBS. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBS approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. All outward capital transfers by residents requ ire the specific approval of the CBS. Imports and import payments October I. The 10% import du ty rate was replaced w i th an 8% import du ty rate. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the euro. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, how- ever, both the I ta l ian l i ra and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. The monetary agreement between San Mar ino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Ma r ino to issue annua l ly agreed amounts of San Marino l ira coins equiva- lent in form to I ta l ian coinage; these coins are legal tender in both countries. The San Mar- ino gold scudo is also issued, but is legal tender on ly in San Marino. It is generally not used in transactions because its num isma t ic va lue exceeds its def ined legal value, which is €30.99 per 1 scudo. An agreement between San Mar ino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) reached on November 29, 2000, and entered in to force on April 1, 2001, provides for San Marino to issue, as of January 1, 2002, agreed amounts of euro coins equivalent in form to euro area coinage; these coins w i ll be legal tender in the euro area. It also envisages the poss ib i l i ty for San Ma r ino to issue banknotes, provided that an agreement is reached w i th the EU. The current agreement does not affect San Ma r ino 's right to continue issuing gold scudi. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Foreign exchange transactions are conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th foreign coun tr ies on foreign accounts are made in conver t ib le currencies or in euros. No. The Central Bank of San Mar ino (CBSM) may grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions (since August 1, 2000, four banks have been so author- ized). The Finance and Exchange Agreement with Italy allows Sammarinese banks to ma in ta in accounts with f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions abroad. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions free ly, with settlement effected through author- ized Italian and Sammarinese intermediaries. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions San Marino adopts the restrictions applied by the EU. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Laws establish that the CBSM is the sole agency entitled to carry out transactions in gold. The CBSM may authorize other banks or domestic companies to buy gold for production purposes, after ensu r ing the necessary controls. Currently, there is no gold trade in San Ma r ino. 824 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 825 Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes To combat money laundering, transactions in cash or bearer securities in excess of €15,500 must be made th rough f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ion s. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of numbered accounts. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to fore ign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts are free to ma in ta in any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of num- bered accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No l icense, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transac- t ions. Imports from the EU are not subject to restrictions, whereas imports f rom third coun- tries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. Customs du t ies on imports f rom outside the EU are collected by EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied by San Marino on all imports at the time of entry. The s t ruc tu re of th is tax corresponds closely to the Italian VAT, but the average ef- fec t ive rate is about 4% lower. Sales taxes lev ied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the pub l ic sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SAN MARINO Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No licenses, other than the general business license, are required to engage in trade transactions. Exports to the EU are not subject to restrictions, wh i le exports to third countries are gov- erned by relevant EU regulations. Customs clearance formalities concerning the export of arms, works of art, and precursor and dual-use products must be carried out at the customs off ices identified by the EU-San Marino Cooperation Committee. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No controls are applied on transfers. However, payments exceeding €15,500 are to be re- ported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No controls are applied; however, proceeds exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are subject to authorization, wh i le the issue of shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature is not allowed. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment SAN MARINO 827 The regu la t ions governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the bank ing law provisions as well as those of the Office of Banking Supervision (OBS). In add i t ion, the average interest rates applied by the f inanc ial system are monitored and their threshold rates are determined in order to prevent usury. Yes. Yes. Investments requ i re government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with na t ional firms. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases by domestic companies and nonresidents require approval from the Counc il of Twelve. Approval is granted on a case-by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Except for occasional transactions, th is activity is not allowed. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) The gran t ing of substantial amounts of f inanc ial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the OBS. Lending locally in foreign exchange The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the bank ing law provisions as we ll as those of the OBS. Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The purchase of securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature exceeding 5% of a Sammarinese bank 's capital must be declared to the OBS. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Currency-matching regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SAN MARINO Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes and coins were introduced. Both the euro and the Italian lira could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March I. The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe dobra. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax The o f f ic ial exchange rate is computed on a daily basis as a weighted average of the ex- change rates of the exchange bureaus, the commercial banks, and the parallel market. The intervention currency is the dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the dollar for the currencies concerned. The tax rates vary, according to the type of transaction involved. On import-related ex- change transactions, when an LC is opened a stamp duty of 0.25% of the import value and a postage levy of the equ iva lent of $2 are payable. On foreign checks for collection, com- mercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export pro- ceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a m in imum of $25 and a maximum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened and an additional fee of 0.125% is levied when the funds are re- ceived. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There are inoperative bilateral agreements with Angola and Cape Verde. An outstanding debit balance remains with Angola. Import and export licenses are granted free ly by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes only. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 829 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 830 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened f ree ly and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits At the time an LC is opened, importers are required to lodge a deposit in the domestic cur- rency equ iva len t —wh ich is curren t ly not remunerated —of up to 100% of the va lue of the LC (depending on the creditworthiness of the operator). Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All ind iv idua ls and productive entities are permitted to engage in import activities. Import taxes and/or tariffs The customs ta r i f fs consist of three rates: 5%, 10%, and 20%, with no zero-rate band, and specific consumer taxes are levied on refined petroleum products, a lcoho l ic beverages, and tobacco. Imports of automobiles are subject to surcharges of between 5% and 15%, depend ing on the age of the car. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses No. Yes. For statistical purposes, all exports require the completion of a registration form specifying the quan t i ty and c.i.f. or f.o.b. va lue of the export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 831 Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Banks charge a commission of 0.125% on the collection of export proceeds—with a mini- mum equivalent of $25 and a maximum of $300—when the LC is opened, and an addi- tional commission of 0.125% is collected when funds are received. Banks also charge a postage levy of Db 39,000. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Commercial banks charge a postage levy of the equivalent of $2 for clients (and $4 for others) on all transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. n .a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Currency The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian riyal. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements The exchange rate of the r iyal is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. The inter- ven t ion currency is the dollar, to which a close relationship is maintained. The riyal rate against the dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). The SAMA's middle rate, which has been stable since June 1986 at SRls 3.745 per $1, serves — together with the SAMA's buying and selling rates—as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125% above and below the SAMA's buy ing and se l l ing rates, respectively. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions w i th, and the use of the currency of, Israel are proh ib i ted. No. Administration of control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions on transactions with Iraq. In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions have been im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the prev ious government of the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia. In compliance w i th UN Secur i ty Counc il Reso lu t ion 1373, assets suspected of being invo lved in f inanc ing terrorism are l iab le to be ing frozen or seized. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Res iden ts may import and export gold in any form, except manu fac tu red gold and jewelry, wh ich are subject to a 12% customs du ty. Gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 832 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Resident Accounts 833 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Yes. Trade with Israel is prohibited. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates of 0-5%. For a few goods, the rate is 20% and for tobacco products it is 100%. Imports from members of the GCC are exempt from duties, provided that at least 40% of value added is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51% of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 834 SAUDI ARABIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is restricted to Saudi Arabian na t iona ls, Saudi Arabian corporations and ins t i tu t ions, and citizens of the GCC. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock compa- nies is allowed for foreign investors through mu tual funds managed by Saudi banks. There are no controls on por tfo l io investment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the M in is ter of Commerce to sell or issue securities w i th in the Kingdom. There are no controls on the repatriation of proceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell nonresident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. For the sale of collective investment securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a par- ticipating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating na tu re apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating na ture apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required for riyal-denominated loans made through Saudi Arabian banks. Financial credits The SAMA's permission is required for all financial credit operations. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 835 To residents from nonresidents Financial institutions that give guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same privileges as domestic capi- tal. The foreign investment law allows foreign investors to make direct investments in most of the country's economic sectors —with or without local participation —and provides for a 15% reduction in tax rates on foreign company profits exceeding SRls 100,000 (reducing the maximum to 30% from 45%). The tax rates are 20%, 25%, and 30% on various profit levels. The Supreme Economic Council has issued a list of economic sectors that remain off limits to foreign investors. The list is reviewed regularly and includes projects related to explora- tion, drilling, and production of gas and oil; production of military equipment and uni- forms; production of explosives for civil purposes; printing and publishing; telecommuni- cations services; education services; insurance and insurance-related services; land and air transportation; real estate investments in Mecca and Medina; services involving electricity transmission and distribution; services involving fishing; distribution services, including wholesale and retail trade and commission agencies; and a few other sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In principle, the purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Arabian corporations, Saudi Arabian institutions, and citizens of the GCC. However, under the foreign investment law, foreign investors are allowed to own real estate, as needed for their business, including housing for their staff. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase real estate for conducting real estate business in all cities, except for the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, provided that the investment in the real estate business is not less than SRls 30 million. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prize earnings are transferable; gambling is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Saudi banks require the SAMA's permission to lend to nonresidents, except for interbank transactions and commercial credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only domestic currency deposits are subject to the SAMA's reserve requirement. Prior SAM A approval is required for Saudi banks to acquire shares in foreign companies. In banks by nonresidents Prior permission of the authorities is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement w i th no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of euros and a freely determined commission on purchases and sales of foreign currencies not di- rectly related to transactions abroad. In addition, a commission of 0.25% (all of which must be surrendered to the treasury) is levied by banks on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover for payments related to im- ports and exports of goods and services. Forward cover may be provided on ly in the cur- rency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of the import or export payment stipulated in the commercial contract. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Senegal is l inked to the French Treasury th rough an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations Use of fore ign exchange among res iden ts Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Borrowing by residents f rom nonres iden ts must be channeled th rough authorized banks, (whenever borrowed funds are used in the country), un less otherwise indicated by the M in- istry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The CFA f ranc is the o n ly legal tender in Senegal. Traveling residents must surrender to an au thor ized in termed iary, w i t h in eight days of the ir re tu rn, any foreign banknotes or other means of payment denom ina ted in foreign exchange valued in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined with the French Treasury that l inks Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t im a t e ly settled th rough a d eb it or cred it to the Operations Account. 836 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency SENEGAL 837 A mu l t ina t ional c lear ing agreement exists in the context of the WAMA between the coun- tries of the WA EMU, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone. All paymen ts related to current transactions between these countries may be effected under the clearing arrangements. However, this excludes transactions specified by the committee of governors of the central banks of ECOWAS member coun- tries and payments related to subregional trade of finished products originating in countries whose central bank or monetary au thor i ty is not a member of the WAMA. Exchange con trol is adm in is tered by the MEF, which delegates a part of its approval au- thor i ty to the BCEAO authorized banks and the Postal Administration. The Directorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs offices monitor outflows of foreign exchange and con f i rm impor ts and exports of goods. All exchange operations with foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the postal administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO and the MEF exercise exchange controls ex post. No supporting documents are requ ired for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on precious metal brokers. Imports and exports of gold o r ig ina t ing in or bound to non -WAEMU countries require prior authorization from the MEF. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 500 grams. CFA franc banknotes may be exported free ly by travelers. However, the suspension of BCEAO repurchases of exported bankno tes con t inues. In add i t ion, the exchange of BCEAO banknotes between authorized dealers and their correspondents outside the WAEMU is p roh ib i ted. The reexpo r ta t ion of fo re ign bankno tes by nonres ident travelers up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 is allowed. In order to reexport foreign banknotes in excess of this ceiling, the traveler must provide documen ta t ion snowing that the notes were imported or pur- chased w i th another means of payment recorded in the traveler's name or via a withdrawal from a nonres ident account at a local bank. Bankno tes and co ins issued by the BCEAO may be imported f ree ly by res iden ts or nonresidents. Nonres iden ts and residents may b r ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold co ins) of coun t r i es outside the Operations Account area. Residents b r ing ing in foreign bankno tes and other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 300,000 must sell them to an authorized dealer w i th in eight days. Non re s iden ts are requ i red to make a w r i t ten dec lara t ion of all means of payment they hold in excess of CFAF 1 m i l l ion upon entry into or departure from Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 838 SENEGAL Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening of these accounts with authorized dealers in Senegal is permitted, but is sub- ject to prior approval by the MEF with the consent of the BCEAO. Held abroad Ind iv idua ls traveling abroad may open bank accounts to receive foreign currency legiti- mately exported or earned du r ing the ir stay abroad. However, residents are required to re- patriate assets held in these accounts w i th in 30 days of their return. In all other cases, the pr ior authorization of the MEF, w i th the agreement of the BCEAO, is required to open an account abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold these accounts with authorized financial institutions, but prior ap- proval of the BCEAO is required. These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEF, which is given with the consent of the BCEAO. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident-owned foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire for- eign exchange un t il the contractual date of the payments. Exchange au thor iza t ion, invoices, and export-import cards are required. Import transactions originating in countries outside the CFA franc zone are required to be domiciled with authorized banks if imports exceed CFAF 5 million. An inspection is required for the quan t i ty, qua l i ty, and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion f.o.b. Imports of narcotics and f irearms are prohibited. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions may be applied to products for public health and security reasons. The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A statistical tax of 1%, a WAEMU community solidarity levy of 1%, and an ECOWAS levy of 0.5% are also levied. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 839 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds f rom exports, excluding those between WAEMU countries, must normally be collected w i th in 120 days of shipment and repatriated through the BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank all foreign exchange proceeds from abroad or from nonresidents within one month after the due date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A customs dec lara t ion is requ ired. Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All exports having a value in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled, except those between WAEMU countries. Authorization is required for gold exports. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers for inv is ib le transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be made freely. Payments and receipts made by foreign ships in WAEMU ports or by WAEMU ships in foreign ports are considered current transactions. Only authorized intermediaries may engage in the fo l low ing outward transactions, subject to documents requirements: (1) transfers relating to contractual repayments on debts and short-term credits granted to finance commercial and indus tr ial operations; (2) transfers of the proceeds from the liquidation of investments or the sale of securities by nonresidents; (3) option purchase settlements; and (4) any other operations outside this framework re- qu ire authorization by the MEF. Current transac t ions and payments may be made free ly by authorized banks, subject to documen tary requ iremen ts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident travelers must present a travel document and a valid passport or a national identity card to an authorized intermediary bank or exchange bu reau before fore ign exchange will be issued. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other means of payment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 840 SENEGAL Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreigners wo rk ing in Senegal may t rans fer the ir total net wages and salaries upon presen- ta t ion of pay slips. Yes. On ly credit cards issued by specialized agencies may be used. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from i n v i s i b le transac t ions w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies must be repatriated. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital movements between WAEMU member countries are free of exchange controls. Outward capital transfers require MEF authorization except in the case of (1) transfers of amounts necessary for the contractual amortization of debts and the repayment of short- term loans granted to f i n a n ce indu s t r ial and commercial operations; (2) transfers of pro- ceeds f rom the l i q u i d a t i on of inves tmen ts or sale of foreign securities by nonres iden ts; and (3) payments for the purchase of op t ions. Cap i tal receipts from WAEMU countries, how- ever, are perm i t ted f ree ly. Foreign borrowing must be reported for statistical purposes. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization from the MEF; up to 75% of such investments may be financed w i th borrowing from abroad. The p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the RCPSFM is requ ired for the fo l low ing operations: issu ing or ma rke t ing of secu r i t ies and real assets of foreign en t i t ies, canvassing, and pub l i c i ty or ad- ve r t is ing for inves tment abroad. Controls on capital transactions Controls on cap ital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts These purchases are subject to declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts The issue or sale of secur i t ies by non re s iden ts is subject to p r ior au thor iza t ion from the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These operations, as well as transfers of related funds, require the approval of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by re s iden ts There are no con t ro ls on the sale of secur i t ies for d is inves tment purposes in the form of a t rans fer between a non r e s id ent and a res iden t. Foreign currency proceeds from the sale of secu r i t ies or d i s inv e s tm ent mu st be surrendered to an au thor ized intermediary. Bonds or other debt securities The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money ma rket i n s t r um e n ts The r e g u l a t i o ns gov e rn ing shares or o ther secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies The regu la t ions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents SENEGAL 841 Residents may f ree ly purchase abroad or f rom nonresidents call or put options for primary commodities or secur i t ies transac t ions, subject to the appropriate regulations. Residents may not purchase commodities or securities on foreign markets for delivery in a put option contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for delivery abroad in execu t ion of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commerc ial c red i ts may be gran ted f ree ly in connec t ion w i th merchandise exports if the due date of the payment is w i t h in 120 days of the sh ipment of the merchandise. Commer- cial c red i ts in connec t ion w i th the p rov i s ion of services may be granted f ree ly by residents; no l im it is set for the payment due date. Nonresidents may grant free ly commercial credits to resident institutions. Repayments of commercial credits are genera l ly authorized, subject to the submission of supporting documents. These credits require the prior authorization of the MEF. Transfer abroad of the funds nec- essary to service these fac i l i t ies requ ires an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the MEF, and the submission of supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no con t ro ls on these f a c i l i t i e s. Funds requ ired for serv ic ing these fac i l i t ies must be transferred abroad by an au tho r ized in termed iary bank. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The g ran t ing of guarantees and sure t ies is subject to pr ior approval by the MEF. Transfer abroad of the funds requ i red to service these fac i l i t ies requ ires issuance of an exchange permit, sub ject to approval of the MEF and the submission of suppor t ing documents. These fac i l i t ies may be granted free ly, although the funds required for servicing them must be transferred abroad by an authorized intermediary. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct investment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and therefore require a prior declaration to the MEF. Direct inve s tmen ts con s t i tu te inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered d i rect investment un less it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quo ted on a stock exchange. All inves tmen ts abroad by Senegalese res iden ts, i n c l u d i ng inve s tmen ts th rough foreign companies under the direct or ind i rect control of res iden ts of Senegal and investments by foreign branches or subsidiaries of companies es tab l ished in Senegal, requ i re the prior authorization of the MEF; up to 75% of such inv e s tm en ts may be f inanced by fo re ign borrowing. No au thor iza t ion is required for the purchase of fo re ign secu r i t ies if the RCPSFM has authorized the ir issue or marketing in WAEMU coun t r ies. Foreign direct investments in Senegal, inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compan ies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. The l i q u i d a t i on of inves tmen ts by res iden ts abroad must be reported to the MEF. The rein- vestment of the proceeds of such l i q u i d a t i on is subject to the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. If the. r e inv e s tm ent has not been au tho r ized, the proceeds of the l i q u i d a t i on must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 SENEGAL repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign in- vestments in Senegal is allowed, but must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require the prior authorization of the MEF. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. Sales between nonresidents and residents require the submission of supporting documenta- tion to the authorized intermediary that handles the settlement and must be declared to the MEF. Unless prior authorization is received from the MEF, capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the central bank, the postal administration, or an authorized intermediary bank. Loans of any k ind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents by authorized intermediaries are subject to prior MEF authorization with the agreement of the BCEAO. To residents from nonresidents These transactions may be made freely, but they are subject to declaration for statistical purposes to the MEF when granted and when repaid. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Inheritances and dowries are generally authorized. Gifts and endowments, however, are subject to prior MEF authorization. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants with resident status must obtain the prior authorization of the MEF to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to presentation of supporting documents to the MEF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad For statistical purposes, these transactions must be declared to the MEF when they are granted and when they are repaid. Banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may open accounts with their correspondent banks to settle operations for their own account or for their customers. However, banks may not keep amounts exceeding their current requirements in these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These operations are allowed in the case of commercial credits. Prior MEF authorization is required for loans and financial credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls These purchases require prior RCPSFM authorization. Loans of any k ind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MEF authorization, with the agreement of the BCEAO. These claims are inc luded in the external position of banks and financial institutions, which is subject to special mon i to r ing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 843 D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The regu la t ions governing direct investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts These pos i t ions, wh ich requ ire an exceptional waiver, are not subject to prudential ratios. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the insurance code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets (CIMA). Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA code in effect in Senegal includes specific rules on the use of the technical re- serves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO (Position as of June 30, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: May 15, 2002. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r renc ies of Serbia and Montenegro are the d inar in the Repub l ic of Serbia and effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, the euro (prev ious ly, the deutsche mark) in the Repub l ic of Montenegro. Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- a n n o u n c ed path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market In the Repub l ic of Serbia, the exchange rate of the dinar against the euro is set at the f ix ing session he ld at the Inter-Bank Foreign Exchange Market on the basis of supply and de- mand. This rate represen ts the o f f ic ial rate of the d inar against the euro, and it is applied to t ransac t ions conduc ted at the f i x i ng session. The Na t ional Bank of Serbia (NBS) intervenes in the f i x i ng session for the purpose of i n f l u e n c i ng the movement of the exchange rate. The o f f ic ial rate of the dinar vis-a-vis other currencies traded in the domestic foreign exchange market is determined on the basis of their cross-rates vis-a-vis the euro. Purchases and sales of fore ign exchange ou ts ide the f i x i ng session take place w i th in margins of ±0.3% and ±0.6% for noncash and cash transactions, respectively. The NBS charges a commission of 0.5% on sales of foreign exchange and, effective March 1, 2003, a commission of 0.15% on sales of conver t ib le foreign currencies, except for do l la rs for wh ich the commission is 2%. E f fec t ive March 31, 2003, the NBS began to trade in conve r t ib le marka, Czech ko runy, Hunga r ian fo r in t, and Slovenian tolars on the foreign exchange market, w i th a commission of 2.5% on purchases only. E f f e c t ive A p r il 27, 2002, banks are free to f ix th e ir own buy ing and s e l l ing rates for foreign exchange on the basis of supp ly and demand, but must observe the rates p reva i l ing in the in te rna t ional market. Au tho r ized banks may buy and sell foreign exchange on the interbank market outside the f ix ing session at mu tu a l ly agreed rates, and they may set the commis- sions for these services freely. n .a. If the exported goods or services are contracted, and payments made in conver t ib le foreign cu r rency, j u r i d i c al persons are en t i t l ed to a r e fund of customs and o ther import duties, as well as to other in c en t ive paymen ts. For exports of goods, the ca lcu la t ion is based on the free Serbia and Montenegro border parity; for exports of services, the calculation is based on the amount after deduc t ion of foreign costs. The rates applied for re fund of customs d u t i es vary for d i f f e r e nt types of econom ic ac t iv i t ie s, but range f rom 0.23% to 2.96%. An enterprise that has collected payment for exports of merchandise is entitled to a partial r e fund of f r e ight paid for ra i l, ma r i t ime, or air transportation from the Serbia and Montene- gro border to the de s t ina t ion at rates rang ing f rom 1.5% to 2.5%. Add i t ional incen t ives are offered for certain agr icu l ture and food industry exports, at rates rang ing f rom 1% to 6.4%. Forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted, provided that their terms of de l ivery are more than two work ing days and no longer than 365 days from the contract date. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments for impor ts and proceeds from exports of goods and services may not be made in foreign banknotes. 844 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 845 Controls on the use of domestic currency Settlements among residents must be effected in domestic currency, except in cases that are permitted by the Foreign Exchange Law. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Credit operations Granting loans between residents and nonresidents in dinars is not permitted. Use of foreign exchange among residents In Serbia, on April 27, 2002, the requirements for access to foreign exchange by businesses were s imp l if ied. Exchange operations may be conducted by any authorized commercial bank or authorized dealer, provided that they meet reporting requirements. Payments among residents in Serbia must be effected in dinars. In exceptional cases pay- ments may be effected in foreign exchange according to the Foreign Exchange Law. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange con trol in Serbia is carried out by the state au tho r i t ies and the NBS. Na tu ral and j u r i d i c al persons, en t rep reneu rs, and agencies and organ iza t ions are subject to these controls. According to the Cons t i tu t ional Charter of the State U n i on of Serbia and Montenegro and its implementing law, the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) applies to the NBS, making it an autonomous ins t i tu t ion of the monetary system of Serbia and the sole bank of issue and responsible for the conduct of monetary policy, the stability of the cur- rency, financial d isc ip l ine, controls over banks and other f inanc ial organizations, and the performance of other opera t ions prescribed by law. Based on the provisions of the Law on the NBY and the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, the NBS is authorized to issue and revoke licenses to banks and other f inan- cial organ iza t ions, and the NBS is authorized to adopt the regu la t ions necessary for imple- men t ing the Law on Banks and Other F inanc ial Organ iza t ions. The Foreign Exchange Inspectorate of Serbia exercises exchange control over the fore ign trade operations of residents and nonres iden ts. Customs au tho r i t ies control the export and import of fo re ign and local currencies, securi- ties, and gold taken out of or brought in to Serbia or transmitted by mail or other means. They also con trol the export of fo re ign exchange by au tho r ized banks. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, commercial banks were allowed to effect all payments for do- mestic services. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears O f f ic ial P r iva te An agreement has been reached w i th Par is C lub cred i tors to reduce the debt to o f f i c i al bi- lateral creditors. Discussions are ongoing with London Club creditors to obtain debt relief on terms similar to those granted by Paris Club creditors. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade On ly gold producers may engage in domestic trade in u n r e f i n ed gold, The NBS may export both co ins and b u l l i o n; for others, an export-import l icense is re- qu i r ed. Res iden ts other than gold producers and banks au thor ized to engage in fore ign ex- change transactions —who are allowed to export gold bu l l ion and gold coins, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency respectively —may export gold coins and b u l l i on on ly w i th NBS permission. Exports of gold may be p roh ib i ted for balance of payments considerations. The import and export of d ina rs and foreign currency are allowed pursuant to the condi- t ions and procedures for personal and physical transfer of legal tender abroad and from abroad. Domestic and foreign persons may take out banknotes up to dinar 120,000 (prior to May 10, 2002, d inar 30,000) a person in denom ina t ions of dinar 1,000 or smaller. Exports of d inar banknotes by ma il or other means are subject to NBS approval. The NBS reserves the r ight to export banknotes for purposes of sale to other banks. These exports are permitted for num isma t ic purposes —in which case up to three sets of all banknote denomi- na t ions for each approval may be exported —and to allow the testing of automatic te l ler machines, provided that the firms guarantee the banknotes will be returned when the testing is completed or, at the latest, w i th in three months after the b i l ls are received. To take out NBS-issued commemorative coins (limited to three sets), domestic persons must have written permission from the NBS, and foreign persons must complete a customs certificate and present an invoice from a licensed supplier. Resident natural persons may transfer abroad foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the equivalent of €2,000, in aggregate. Foreign ind iv idua ls and citizens of Serbia and Mon- tenegro work ing abroad on a temporary basis may take abroad foreign banknotes up to the amount they had declared upon entering the country. They may also take out foreign cur- rencies from their own foreign exchange accounts. An authorized bank may, subject to NBS approval, export foreign currency for replenishing its account w i th a foreign correspondent bank. Approval is granted if the bank in ques t ion is authorized to perform payment operations on ly or to perform payment operations and credit transactions with foreign countries, and if the NBS has not restricted such operations of the bank in ques t ion. Au tho r ized banks are obliged to fu rn i sh the NBS w i th a copy of the prescribed documen ts as evidence of payment w i th in 10 days of exporting foreign currency. These documents must be certified by the relevant customs authority on the date of export. Furthermore, a statement of the au thor ized bank 's foreign account must be submitted as proof that the approved amount of foreign currency was deposited to replenish the account. Domestic and fore ign persons may import up to d inar 120,000 a person (May 10, 2002, dinar 30,000), in denominations of d inar 1,000 or smaller (prior to May 10, 2002, denomi- na t ions of d inar 100 or smaller). In excep t ional cases, foreign persons may import domestic banknotes in amounts and de- nom ina t ions larger than those specified above, provided that the banknotes were purchased at a fore ign bank and that a purchase receipt is presented to the customs o f f ice for inspec- t ion upon en ter ing the coun try. The NBS may import domestic banknotes that were exported for the purpose of sale to foreign banks. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currency notes are not limited but must be reported to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident natural and ju r id ical persons may hold foreign exchange accounts freely, which they may credit f rom and deb it for all au thor ized fore ign exchange transactions. Res ident government agencies and o rgan iza t ions may ho ld foreign exchange accounts w i th the NBS only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held abroad Approval required SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 847 Banks may hold foreign exchange with authorized banks, the NBS, and the Central Securi- ties Depository only. On Ju ly 4, 2002, the Law on the Settlement of the Pub l ic Debt of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Arising from the Citizens' Foreign Currency Savings (Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 36/02) came into effect, mandating that all foreign currency savings deposits be converted into bonds issued by Serbia and Montenegro. Serbia began issuing these bonds on August 19, 2002. Yes. Resident natural and ju r id i c al persons, inc lud ing representative off ices of enterprises abroad, may ho ld foreign exchange in an account w i th a bank abroad with the approval of the NBS. Resident natural persons are not allowed to hold accounts abroad, with the exception of foreign citizens who have resided in Serbia for more than one year and persons employed in diplomatic representative o f f ices abroad and their families. Except for foreign banks, authorized banks may not hold foreign exchange accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and ju r id ical persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with author- ized banks in the form of demand and time deposits under the conditions prescribed by the NBS. Deposits may be held in currencies traded on the domestic foreign exchange market. (Deposits to foreign currency accounts may be made as transfers or, in certain cases, with cash.) Account holders may use the foreign exchange in their accounts to make dinar payments in Serbia, to transfer foreign exchange abroad, and to make foreign exchange payments abroad or domestically, in accordance with existing regulations. Cash payments may be effected f rom the foreign exchange accounts of international hu- manitarian and other organizations, from the accounts of foreign persons to be used for humanitarian purposes, and from the accounts of foreign diplomatic representative offices and the nonresident members and employees of these offices. A bank may not cancel or return to the foreign exchange account any dinar disbursements effected from foreign currency accounts of foreign persons. C i t izens of Serbia and Mon tenegro w i th dual c i t izensh ip and who have resided abroad for more than one year are considered nonresidents. Non res iden ts may ho ld domestic currency and foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in the form of sight deposits and t ime deposits. The NBS may spec ify cond i t ions regard ing the types of f u n ds that may be accepted as deposits. Non res iden ts may deposit domestic currency acquired through authorized transactions in accounts w i th au thor ized banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 848 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Financing requirements for imports M i n i m um f i n a n c i ng r equ i r em en ts Advance payment r e q u i r em e n ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts Paymen ts for impor ts of goods and services are free of restrictions, provided that documen- tary proof is subm i t ted. There are no re s t r ic t ions on advance payments for import of goods or services, but if im- ports do not take place, the fore ign exchange must be returned within eight working days f rom the contracted f inal date. Imports w i th a contracted period exceeding 90 days from the date of advance payment are deemed to be credit transac t ions, and the transactions must be registered with the NBS, and are subject to p rov is ions on procedures, time l im i ts, registration, and reporting as specified in the fore ign exchange law. In excep t ional cases, when impo r t ing equipment or custom-manufactured spare parts for p roduc t ion equ ipmen t, or if produc t ion of such spare parts takes longer than 90 days, the NBS may approve an ex tens ion of the import period, not exceeding the time period speci- fied in the o r ig inal import contract. A res ident may impo rt books, magazines, newspapers, and other publications w i th in 12 mon ths f rom the date of advance payment w i thout NBS approval. Payments for imports may be effected on ly through authorized banks. Residents are al- lowed to make paymen ts for imports with the ir own foreign exchange funds held with an authorized bank or by purchasing foreign exchange on the foreign exchange market without res t r ic t ion th rough an au tho r ized bank. Residents are obligated to provide the bank with the standard import documen ta t ion. P r e sh ipm ent inspec t ion Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Nega t ive l i st Licenses w i th quo tas An estimated 98.3% of all ta r i ff items may be imported freely. Impor ts of used veh ic les, cons t ruc t ion and m in ing equ ipment more than six years old, and hazardous waste materials are prohibited. Licenses are r equ i r ed for 480 (or 1.7% of total) ta r i ff items. Licenses are required for ar- maments ( in c lud ing firearms, sport and hun t ing arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw ma te r ia ls used in exp los ives, m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t, certain precious metals, some heavy met- a l l u r gy p roduc ts, and goods that are sub ject to in terna t ional agreements. Addictive drugs are subject to a spec ial set of impo rt licenses. The federal gove rnment does not issue spec if ic licenses w i th va lue or vo lume quotas. Cer- ta in k i n ds of goods o r i g i n a t i ng in the former Yugos lav Repub l ic of Macedonia are quantita- t i v e ly restricted accord ing to the type of license. Such restrictions are mu tu a l ly agreed upon in the trade agreement signed between the two governments. Quotas and import l i c e n s i ng requ i remen ts apply to specific steel products. The Repub l ic of Montenegro also issues contingency licenses for agricultural products and selected appli- ances. Other non ta r i ff measures Some 40 ta r i ff items are subject to quan t i ta t ive and value quotas. Import taxes and/or tar iffs An impo rt t a r i ff s c h e d u le is in e f fect that has a max imum import du ty of 30% and a simple average rate of under 10%. State import monopoly No. Repatr iat ion requ irements R e s id en ts mu st co l l e ct rece ip ts f rom export of goods and services du r ing the contract pe- r iod, but not later than e ight wo rk ing days from the expiry date of the contract. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 849 The export of goods and services w i th a payments co l lec t ion contract period of more than 90 days is deemed to be a credit transaction, must be registered w i th the NBS, and is sub- ject to the provisions on procedures, time l im i ts, registration, and reporting as specified in the foreign exchange law. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Receipts f rom exports of goods and services must be effected through authorized banks in Serbia. P resh ipment inspec t ion Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas Out of the total 8,552 tariff items, the free export regime applies to 8,458 items (or 98.9%). The export license under scheme "D" applies to 94 (or 1.1% of total) tariff items. These are required for armaments ( inc lud ing firearms, sport and hun t ing arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw materials used in explosives, military equipment, historic pieces of art, certain precious metals, and goods that are subject to international agreements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Documentary requ iremen ts must be satisfied. Payments for travel Payments in fore ign banknotes and trave ler's checks are limited to the equ iva lent of €2,000. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Payments in fore ign banknotes and trave ler's checks are limited to the equ iva lent of €2,000. Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test All transactions require documentary evidence except for transfers of less than the equivalents of €5,000 a month for fam i ly support, €3,000 for gifts, and €500 for fam i ly ma in tenance. Foreign workers' wages These transactions may be made freely after payment of the appropriate taxes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Cred it card use abroad The use of credit cards is restricted to current transactions. Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The regu la t ions gove rn ing exports and export proceeds apply. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions On Apr il 27, 2002, a new fore ign exchange law came into effect, subs tan t ia l ly liberalizing long-term capital account transactions, exc lud ing lending and investment abroad. Docu- mentation requirements were also simplified extensively. The securities market law ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 850 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents (Off ic ial Gazette of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia, No. 65/02) became effec t ive on June 1 ,2003. According to the new securities market law, the Securities Commission is authorized to ensure investor protection through f u ll and t ime ly d isc losure and reporting of issuers and eligible securities. The Securities Commission oversight powers extend from the primary issuance of equ i t ies and f ixed income secur i t ies to en fo rc ing f inanc ial d i sc ip l ine in the sec- ondary markets for these instruments. For the purposes of this law, financial market intermediaries are defined to include brokers, dealers, market makers, underwriters, custody banks, and banks. This law applies to all domestically issued corporate securities denominated in domestic or foreign currencies. The issuance and secondary trad ing of government securities are sub ject to the law on pub- lic debt pending approval in parliament. The securities market law centralizes securities trading on organized exchanges but allows, as an exception, over-the-counter secondary trading in f ixed income securities among pro- fessional investors as defined by the law. The law also mandates the replacement of the current paper registration system with an electronic system by June 2005. These transactions are permitted, except for short-term domestic securities and shares of domestic companies involved in weapons produc t ion / trad ing ac t iv i t ies, un less the ma jo r i ty of shares of a jo in t -ven tu re company is owned by a resident/investor. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are imp l ic i t ly permitted under the securities market law, but are regu- lated by the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not exp l ic i t ly limited by the secur i t ies market law, but are controlled by the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not controlled, but procedures are regulated by the provisions of the Company Act. Bonds or other debt securities Approval of the Securities Commission is requ ired for issuance of these ins trumen ts except when the issuer is sovereign, and the issue w i ll be subject to the Law on Pub l ic Debt, wh ich is expected to be adopted soon. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not exp l ic i t ly controlled by the secur i t ies market law, but are regu- lated by the prov is ions of the foreign exchange law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not explicitly controlled by the securities market law, but are regu- lated by the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions are not controlled by any law, but are regulated by the prov is ions of the Company Act. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not exp l ic i t ly con tro l led, but are regulated by the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not exp l ic i t ly con tro l led, but are regulated by the provisions of the foreign exchange law, w i th the exception of purchases by commercial banks and the NBS. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are proh ib i ted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The securities market law regulates ac t iv i t ies in foreign exchange-denominated derivatives (options and futures) by e l ig ib le intermediaries/participants. Short-term derivatives are governed by the regu la t ions con t ro l l ing the purchase and sale of money market ins trumen ts. Controls on credit operations The Foreign Credit Transaction Law (O f f ic ial Gazette of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugosla- via, Nos. 42/92, 24/94, and 28/96) regulates the cond i t ions for and the manner of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 851 concluding foreign credit transactions in which a credit (commercial, goods, financial, etc.) is obtained or extended. Foreign credit transactions must be registered with the NBS. These are proh ib i ted, except for credits for exports of goods and services, which are al- lowed w i thout restriction. To residents from nonresidents Residents may obtain credits abroad for registered business activities. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted only with profits earned abroad in accordance with the provisions of the law regu la t ing foreign trade operations. Residents are allowed to borrow funds abroad free ly for paying for imports of equipment and intermediate goods and services and for f inanc ing the construction of investment projects. There are controls on the borrowing of funds for purposes other than for imports of goods, services, and f inanc ing of construction of investment projects abroad. These credit transac- tions are allowed only if the NBS has determined that the amount of credit and the method of its disbursement are consistent with balance of payments projections. Normally, the terms of the credits must be longer than one year. Residents may issue guarantees and other forms of sureties to foreign persons engaged in similar business activities for which they are registered. To residents from nonresidents Residents may f ree ly receive guarantees and other sureties from nonresidents engaged in the business activities for which they are registered. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investments may be in the form of (1) foreign exchange; (2) physical assets; (3) intellectual property rights; or (4) securities and other property rights. Direct investments abroad are free of controls, provided that the transaction in question has been registered with the relevant agency in the foreign country and the investment is exe- cuted in accordance with existing regulations. However, these transactions may be prohib- ited or controlled if they are deemed to disrupt balance of payments. A nonres ident foreign investor may invest in assets in a domestic enterprise to acquire a share in the fixed capital of domestic enterprise. A foreign investor may exchange estab- lished claims against a share of capital and/or stock of a debtor company. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from l iqu ida t ion of direct investment may be transferred abroad w i thout control, provided that all tax l iab i l i t ies have been settled. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents are not allowed to acquire ownership of real estate abroad unless a reciprocal agreement has been reached between the country in which the real estate is located and Serbia and Montenegro. This restriction does not apply to government agencies and diplo- matic and consular offices abroad and their employees. Effective April 27, 2002, citizens of Serbia and Montenegro who have resided abroad for more than one year may purchase real estate only through a nonresident foreign exchange account opened with an authorized bank. In Montenegro, nonresidents (including its citi- zens who have resided abroad for more than one year) may not purchase or acquire land in prohibited zones, such as national parks and border areas. Purchases of real estate by nonres iden ts f rom a country that has not concluded a reciprocal agreement with Serbia and Montenegro are prohibited. Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds from these transactions may be transferred abroad freely, provided that all tax l iab i l i t ies have been settled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 852 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Resident natural persons are not allowed to lend to or borrow from nonresidents residing abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f t s, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A re s ident may transfer mone tary g i f ts abroad up to the equivalent of €3,000. To residents from nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are sub ject to money - launde r ing regulations. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants E f fec t ive A p r il 27, 2002, emigrants may take abroad up to the equivalent of €2,000 with them; any r em a i n i ng f u n ds must be transferred through the banking system. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Ea rn ings from lo t ter ies may be transferred abroad after payment of all tax obligations. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions U n t il Ap r il 27, 2002, banks could purchase foreign exchange only for the purpose of carry- ing out cu r rent account transactions. E f fec t ive th is date, they may purchase foreign ex- change based on the ir own needs. Borrow ing abroad On ly banks that have received NBS authorization to conduct foreign credit operations may execu te cred it agreements w i th foreign entities. These transactions must meet the require- ments set by the regu la t ions governing banking operations. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Au tho r ized banks may ho ld foreign currency abroad on ly in accounts with banks. Lend ing to non r e s id en ts ( f in an c i al or commerc ial credits) Cred it t ransac t ions in d ina rs between residents and nonresidents are prohibited. Authorized banks may lend abroad if the loan is registered with the NBS. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Authorized banks may extend credit in foreign currency to resident natural and juridical persons o n ly for paymen ts for impor ts of goods and services. Pu rchase of loca l ly issued secu r i t ies denom ina ted in fore ign exchange Purchases are regu la ted by the Law on the Settlement of Pub l ic Debt of the Federal Repub- l ie of Yugos lav ia A r i s ing From the C i t izens' Foreign Exchange Savings. D i f f e r e n t i al t rea tment of deposit accoun ts in fo re ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Inv e s tm ent r egu l a t ions Abroad by banks E f fec t ive March 28, 2002, a new foreign exchange reserve requirement came into effect in Serbia, r e q u i r i ng reserves aga inst all foreign exchange deposits made before Ju ly 2001 and against foreign exchange deposits made thereafter by enterprises. Post-June 2001 deposits made by i n d i v i d u a ls are not sub ject to th is reserve requirement. E f fec t ive October 1 1, 2002, the reserve requ i rement for accounts denominated in euros or in another foreign currency is 50% in Montenegro (previously, 60%). E f fec t ive March 28, 2002, in Serbia, fore ign exchange deposits made by ind iv idua ls prior to J u ne 2001 are sub ject to a 50% fore ign exchange deposit l iqu id i ty requirement. Credit controls are enforced in accordance with the Law on Banks and other Financial Or- gan iza t ions (O f f i c i al Gazette of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia, No. 39/02). NBS approval is requ i red. In banks by nonresidents NBS approval is requ i red for acqu i s i t ion of more than 15% of the share capital of a bank. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts A bank 's open foreign exchange position is limited to 30% of its capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 853 Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currently, there are no limits, but these transactions are regulated under the foreign ex- change law. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currently, there are no limits, but these transactions are regulated under the foreign ex- change law. Currency-ma tch ing regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition These are cu r ren t ly not regulated by the secur i t ies market law and its by-laws for f inanc ial market in termed iar ies other than banks, but the bank ing law provisions apply to authorized banks. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities t rad ing must take place on an organized exchange with the exception of secon- dary trading in fixed income securities. Changes During 2002 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement May 15. Serbia and Montenegro accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Ar t ic les of Agreement. Exchange arrangement January I. The euro became the legal tender in Montenegro, replacing the deutsche mark. April 27. Banks were allowed to transact in foreign exchange at rates other than those quoted in the f i x i ng sessions. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 27. The requ i remen ts for access to foreign exchange by businesses were s imp l i f ied in Serbia. Resident accounts Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions Con tro ls on personal capital transac t ions Prov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions May 10. The amount of domestic banknotes that domestic and foreign persons were al- lowed to export or import was increased to dinar 120,000 a person from dinar 30,000, in denom ina t ions of d inar 1,000 or smaller (previously, d inar 100 or smaller). July 4. The Law on the Se t t lement of the P u b l ic Debt of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugosla- via A r i s ing From the C i t izens' Foreign Currency Savings (O f f ic ial Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 36/02) came into effect, mandating that all foreign currency savings deposits be converted into bonds issued by Serbia and Montenegro. (Serbia began i s su ing these bonds on August 19, 2002.) April 27. A new foreign exchange law came into effect, substantially liberalizing long-term capital account transac t ions, exc lud ing lend ing and investment abroad. Documentation requirements were simplified extensively. April 27. Citizens of Serbia and Montenegro who have resided abroad for more than one year were permitted to purchase real estate only through a nonresident foreign exchange account opened w i th an authorized bank. April 27. Em ig ran ts were allowed to take abroad up to €2,000 w i th them; any rema in ing funds must be transferred th rough the bank ing system. March 28. A new foreign exchange reserve requ irement came into effect in Serbia, requir- ing reserves against all foreign exchange deposits made before Ju ly 2001 and against for- eign exchange deposits made thereaf ter by enterprises. Post-June 2001 deposits made by ind iv idu a ls are not subject to th is reserve requ i rement but to a 50% (prev ious ly, 60%) for- eign exchange deposit l iqu id i ty requ i remen t. April 27. Banks were allowed to purchase foreign exchange to meet their business needs, subject only to the open foreign exchange position requirements imposed for prudential purposes (prev ious ly, they cou ld purchase foreign exchange on ly for the purpose of carry- ing out current account transac t ions). October 11. The reserve requ i rement for accoun ts denom ina ted in euros or in another for- eign currency was reduced to 50% f rom 60% in Montenegro. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2003 March I. The NBS began to charge a commission of 0.15% on its sale of convertible for- eign currencies (banknotes), except for the dollar for which the charge is 2%. March 31. The NBS began to trade convertible marka, Czech koruny, Hungarian forint, and Slovenian tolars in the foreign exchange market, charging a commission of 2.5% on pur- chases of these currencies (no commissions were charged on sales of these currencies). January L Commercial banks were allowed to effect all domestic payments for services. Capital transactions June I. The securities market law took effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Var ious commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Seychelles rupee is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners, w i th the weights as follows: the euro (37.7%), the Japanese yen (2.7%), the pound sterling (15.7%), the Singapore dollar (7.7%), the South Afr ican rand (10.5%), and the U.S. dollar (25.7%). Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS) circulates these rates daily to the commer- cial banks. On January 1, 2002, the CBS began charging a commission of 0.125% on pur- chases and 0.875% on sales of euros, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars (previously, com- missions of 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs were charged). The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective currencies. Other authorized dealers inc lude casinos, guest houses, hotels, restaurants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, car rental services, boat charters, shipping agents, and ship chandlers. These dealers are restricted to buy ing only in the course of their licensed activity. They must sell an allocated percentage of their foreign currency proceeds to commercial banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nonresidents are requ i red to pay for selected services in foreign currency. Yes. Yes. Regional arrangements Seychelles is a participant in the COMESA and RIFF. 855 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 856 SEYCHELLES Administration of control The exchange control au thor i t ies are the CBS and the M in is t ry of Economic P lann ing (MEP). The MEP par t ia l ly controls foreign trade through a mechanism of import/export and price controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears O f f i c i al Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold f ree ly in any form, except for dealings in gold b u l l i o n, wh ich are restricted to authorized dealers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The max imum amount of domestic currency that travelers may take out of the country is SR 2,000. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency. The max imum amount of domestic currency that travelers may bring in to the country is SR 2,000. Foreign currency Travelers may b r ing in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. Yes. n .a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n .a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts SEYCHELLES 857 An import permit is required. Importers o ther than ind iv idua ls are requ ired to obtain import licenses f rom the Seychelles Licensing Au tho r i ty, in accordance w i th objective cr i ter ia. In addition, for each shipment of goods, an importer must apply to the Import Control D iv is ion of the MEP for a permit, the granting of which is discretionary. Permits are no rma l ly not granted for used vehicles and some nonessen t ial goods. Imports are subject to taxes of up to 200%, w i th most goods subject to rates rang ing be- tween 5% and 30%. The Seychelles Ma rke t ing Board has a monopo ly on imports of rice, sugar, meat, vegeta- bles, margarine, tomato sauce, animal feed, oil, coffee and tea, f ru i t s, f lou r, and chili sauce. Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be transacted through domestic commercial banks, which are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. Surrender requirements are 45% of net pro- ceeds, and are mos t ly earmarked to f inance essential imports and debt-service payments. The remainder is used by commercial banks in accordance with the priority listing. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents must surrender the proceeds to a commercial bank within 90 days of the transac t ion. Receipts, w i th the exception of d iv idend remittances and transfers of management fees, may be disposed of f ree ly. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 SEYCHELLES Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements No. No. Foreign investment is permitted freely, provided that such investment does not involve ownership of land. No. Yes. Yes. No. The liquidity reserve ratio for commercial banks is 50% of their deposit liabilities. The cash reserve ratio is 2.5%. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L The CBS began to charge a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of euros, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars (previously, commissions of 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs were charged). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean leone. Exchange rate structure Dua l. Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange rates are f ree ly determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and li- censed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade free ly among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), the central bank. The BSL determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, including the rate for customs valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted average mid-rate of pur- chases and sales made by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus during the last five business days and at the weekly auction. The official buying and selling rates are set within ±1% of the official mid-rate. Foreign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transac- tions and are not allowed to sell traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones and credited to an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the cur- rency of the importing country or in any specified convertible currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The MOF formulates exchange control po l icy in consultation with the BSL, but the day-to- day administration of exchange control is carried out by the BSL with the assistance of the commercial banks. International security restrictions No. 859 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 Payments arrears O f f ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted SIERRA LEONE Yes. Yes. Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may f ree ly purchase, hold, or sell certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust w i thout a va l id m ine r 's or dealer's license. Exports of gold requ ire a license. Imports of gold in any form, other than jewe lry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, requ i re an ind iv idual import license. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Non res ident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Employees on o f f ic ial bus iness may take out up to the amount of the per diem al- lowance provided for that purpose. Resident travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 without restriction. Residents should declare on departure, foreign exchange in ex- cess of $5,000 with supporting documents. The importation of domestic bankno tes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet the ir operational requirements. Resident Accounts Residents are permitted to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts denominated in any con- ve r t ib le currency. These accounts, for wh ich m in imum balances vary f rom bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account ho lde r 's local expend i tures. Transfers abroad of balances in fore ign currency accounts are permitted for cu r rent in terna t ional transactions w i thout prior approval from the BSL, subject to f u l f i l l i ng the regulations governing the transactions. Held domes t ica l ly Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions governing resident accounts apply. All documen ted inward remittances may also be transferred abroad w i thout reference to the BSL. Accoun ts in leones he ld on beha lf of d ip loma t ic missions, UN agencies, and their accred- ited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits into external accounts are vetted by the BSL, and credit balances of the accounts may be used for external payments w i t h o ut reference to the BSL. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 861 Conver t ib le in to fore ign currency These accounts may be converted in to foreign currency, but approval is required for capital transactions. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n.r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be sub- mitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone and supported by the following documents: completed exchange control form, original pro forma invoice, f inal invoice, original bill of lading/airway b i l l, tax clearance certificate, and preshipment inspection certificate. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an interna- tional company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources do not require LCs established with a local commercial bank. Negative list All goods, except military goods, may be imported freely without a license. Import taxes and/or tariffs A sales tax of 20% of the landed value is levied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated busi- nesses are subject to a 3% tax as advance payment of income taxes. The customs tariff rates are 5% on most food items and raw materials, petroleum products, and most consumer durables; 15% on rice and baby foods; 20% on other food items; and 30% on luxury con- sumer goods. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters must repatriate export proceeds w i th in 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefmanced from external sources are not subject to the repatriation requirement. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements Presh ipment inspection Other Export licenses All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price ve r i f ica t ion, wh ich is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1 % before c lea r ing the ir goods through customs. All exporters of commercial goods are requ ired to complete export forms that must be en- dorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for one year, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25% silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, or pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the equ iva lent of $1,000); postage stamps of ph i la te l ic interest; and works of art. Without quotas Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 Export taxes SIERRA LEONE Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an export tax of 3%, based on the value in dollars of diamonds exported. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commer- cial banks. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit is the equ iva lent of $5,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for travel allowances in excess of the l im it must be supported by travel docu- ments, e.g., a ticket or passport. Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Informa t ion is not available on the payment of pensions. Commercial banks may make remittances in favor of nonresident employees of interna- tional institutions, agencies, or foreign nongovernmental organizations on ly up to the re- muneration package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such payments are supported by a valid work permit, a remunera t ion package agreement, and a tax clear- ance certificate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions BSL approval is required before a security registered in or outside Sierra Leone may be transferred to or purchased by a nonresident. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts All funds accruing on such investment, as well as the capital upon termination of the in- vestment, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad w i thout permission; for permission to be given, the company is usua l ly required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded with domestic resources are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions requ i re BSL approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 863 On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Purchases with funds brought from abroad are allowed. BSL certification is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are not yet available in Sierra Leone. Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan in Sierra Leone, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, to nonresident entities. Permission of the BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In addition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the giving or renewal of any guarantee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be fu l ly covered by the nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Investments abroad are not allowed. Yes. No. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase real estate with funds transferred through authorized dealers with proper documentation. Controls on personal capital transactions n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currency. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks do not engage in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in this respect. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks do not engage in this lending, Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.a. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore dollar. Singapore and B runei currency notes and coins are f ree ly in terchangeab le at par w i thout charge in Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The au tho r i t ies manage the exchange rate as an intermediate target, a l low ing the Singapore do l lar to f luc tua te w i t h in an undisclosed target band. The stance of the exchange rate policy is announced every six mon ths in the Monetary Po l icy Statement, typically in terms of changes to the slope of the po l icy band. The U.S. do l lar is the intervention currency. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks may hedge their exchange risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Singapore is a member of ASEAN. Singapore has no exchange controls, although the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) retains responsibility for exchange control matters. On Apr il 30, 2002, the MAS notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze accounts and assets of listed ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance w i th the re levant UN Security Counc il resolutions. F inanc ial assets owned by residents of Iraq and Libya, by the Taliban, and by the persons indicted by the International Cr im inal Tribunal from the former Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia are blocked. Singapore observes the import and export prohibitions covered by the UN Security Counc il resolutions. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld dome s t ica l ly No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 864 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 865 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Licenses are required for imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs Very few imports are subject to duty. Singapore is a party to the CEPT scheme for the AFTA. Customs du t ies are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and automobiles. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for certain items, such as substances that deplete the strato- spheric ozone layer and rubber. Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quantitative restrictions and other non tar iff barriers in effect in importing countries. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 866 SINGAPORE Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No. No. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may issue equ i ty shares. When the Singapore dollar proceeds of an in i t ial pub l ic o f fe r ing are to be used offshore, these proceeds must be converted in to foreign cur- rency upon drawdown by the issuer. Nonresidents may issue bonds. When the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used offshore, they must be swapped or converted into foreign currency upon drawdown by the issuer. All rated and unrated sovereigns and foreign corporations are allowed to issue Singapore dollar bonds. In the case of unrated corporations, the investor base is restricted to sophisticated investors. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. No. No. Yes. Foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that have been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more sto- ries and in approved condominium developments. Foreigners who make an economic con- tribution to Singapore are given favorable consideration to purchase other residential prop- erties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accommodate their senior personnel. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Singapore's policy of discouraging the internationalization of the Singapore dollar has eased significantly in recent years, and only two policy restrictions remain, which, effective March 20, 2002, do not apply to individuals and nonfmancial entities. First, financial insti- tutions in Singapore may not extend Singapore dollar credit facilities exceeding S$5 mil- lion to any nonresident financial entity for speculative activities in the foreign exchange market. (Singapore dollar facilities include loans, contingent credit lines, and foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 867 exchange swaps involving a spot sale of Singapore dollars to a nonresident in a first leg.) Second, nonresident financial entities must convert Singapore dollar proceeds obtained from Singapore dollar loans, equity listings, or bond issuance into foreign currency before using them to finance activities outside of Singapore. Prior to March 20, 2002, lending restrictions applied to asset swaps, cross-currency swaps, and cross-currency repurchase agreements. Further, lending in securities exceeding S$5 million had to be fully collateral- ized and these transactions could be made for hedging purposes only. Foreign currency deposits of ACU member banks accepted by domestic banks are not sub- ject to reserve requirements. Foreign currency deposits of ACU member banks accepted by domestic banks are not sub- ject to the liquid asset requirement. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits No limits are set by the MAS, but it reviews the internal control systems of banks to ensure that adequate limits and controls are established for treasury activities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurers may include only 30% of their foreign currency-denominated and overseas assets as the part of their admitted assets that goes into the calculation of the solvency of the fund. Of this, 10% must be foreign currency deposits with an approved financial institution, for- eign currency fixed-income securities graded AA and above, and equities listed on any stock exchange. Insurers may include an additional 10% of foreign currency-denominated fixed-income assets that are fu l ly hedged to the Singapore dollar as admitted assets. Insur- ers are allowed to invest assets in relation to the currency of their liabilities. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2002 April 30. The MAS notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze accounts and assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with the rele- vant UN Security Council resolutions. March 20. The policy on the noninternationalization of Singapore dollars no longer applied to individuals and nonfmancing entities and was liberalized to allow resident financial enti- ties to (1) transact freely in foreign exchange options, cross-currency swaps and repos, and asset swaps; (2) lend Singapore dollar-denominated securities against either the Singapore dollar or foreign currency-denominated collateral; and (3) extend Singapore dollar credit facilities to finance Singapore dollar investments without being required to ensure that the facilities are withdrawn when the investments are either wholly or partially liquidated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Currency The currency of the Slovak Repub l ic is the Slovak koruna. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Slovak ko runa is set in the foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) does not support the ko runa 's exchange rate but intervenes primar- ily to smooth large f lu c tu a t ions in the exchange rate and when the exchange rate moves to an unacceptable level. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Slovak Repub l ic is a member of the CEFTA. The foreign exchange au tho r i t ies are the MOF and the NBS. The MOF exercises jur isd ic- t ion in matters re la t ing to other m in is t r ies and central bodies of the state administration, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, jur id ical persons established by separate law who are connected through f inanc ial ties to the state budget, and local commun i t ies and the ir budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF main- t a ins fo re ign exchange records and documents pe r ta in ing to interstate negotiations on prop- erty claims, and imp lemen ts the resu l ts of these negotiations w i th in the country. The NBS exercises ju r i sd ic t ion pu rsuant to residents other than those specified above and to nonresidents. No. No. Trade in gold is conduc ted exc lu s ive ly by banks to the extent stipulated in the ir license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le to open foreign exchange accounts during their stay abroad; otherwise, approval from the NBS is required. Resident Accounts 868 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Approval required SLOVAK REPUBLIC 869 Yes. Yes. A resident may open an account abroad, or enter into a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only after ob ta in ing a foreign exchange permit f rom the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign ex- change permit is not required (1) when the resident has a banking or foreign exchange li- cense; (2) in connection with a private ind iv idua l 's stay abroad; (3) if the funds are needed to cover the documented operating costs of the resident's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of depositing the resident's foreign exchange funds if foreign legislation forb ids the transfer of such funds to the country; or (5) if the funds are needed for the payment of fees, taxes, or other documented expenses related to the administration and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad A foreign exchange permit is required for a resident to open or maintain koruna accounts abroad or to enter into a contract to take custody of a deposit of koruna funds in an account maintained abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency This applies to current international transactions and for permitted capital account transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.r. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Effective January 1, 2003, a nonautomatic licensing system applies to sugar from all coun- tries and diamonds from Sierra Leone. Previously, effective January 1, 2002, this system applied to the fo l low ing goods: (1) soft drinks from the Czech Republic; (2) sugar from all coun tr ies except the Czech Repub l ic; (3) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (4) shoes from Ch ina. A system of variable levies accompanies import l icen s ing. All imports, except those f rom the Czech Repub l ic, with wh ich there is a customs un ion, or f rom coun t r ies with wh ich the Slovak Repub l ic has p re fe ren t ial agreements are subject to an ad valorem ta r i f f. Imports f rom deve lop ing coun t r ies are granted p re fe ren t ial treatment under the generalized system of preferences; thus, the 49 least-developed countries and 96 developing countries are granted 100% and 50% reductions, respectively, on duties appli- cable to selected commodities. Imported goods are subject to a VAT, and there are excise du t ies on m ineral oils, beer, spirits, wine, and tobacco. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to transfer all funds acquired abroad in koruny or foreign exchange to the country without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in con- nection with the acquisition of such funds, within 30 days from the date of acquisition, from the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. This obligation does not apply to (1) foreign or Slovak currency used by a resident natural person dur ing his/her stay abroad; and (2) reinvestment of earnings from direct investment and from employees' securities, except in cases where such investment requires a foreign exchange permit. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for (1) dangerous chemicals, narcotics, poisons, and psycho- tropic substances and their precursors; (2) firearms and ammunition; and (3) all dual-use goods and technologies. Effective January 1, 2003, export licenses are required for (1) a restricted number of agri- cultural goods; and (2) raw materials, such as scrap or raw skins. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Off ic ial travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is Subject to allow- ances, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents must repatriate all proceeds in koruny or foreign exchange w i thout delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, w i th in 30 days of the date of acquisition, the date of learning of such acquisition, or the date of becoming a resident in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Nonresidents may perform th is activity through branches in the Slovak Republic. However, a permit from the Financial Market Authority (FMA) is required. E f fec t ive January 1, 2003, these transactions are liberalized. Controls on credit operations n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 871 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment E f fec t ive January 1, 2002, a permit f rom the NBS subsequent to MOF authorization is re- qu ired, except when the inves tment is made in an OECD or EEA member country. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.r. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, a foreign exchange permit is requ i red, except for purchases in OECD or EEA member countries. Nonresidents, with the exception of Slovak citizens, may acquire real estate in the country only (1) by inher i tance; (2) for the purpose of establishing diplomatic representation of a foreign coun try under conditions of mu tua l i ty; (3) when the real estate acquired is co- owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresident, or when a non- resident acquires real estate from a spouse, sibling, parent, or grandparent; (4) when there is an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonres ident for other domestic fixed assets, the price of wh ich, pursuant to separate regulations, does not exceed the price of the origi- nal real estate as determined in accordance with separate regulations; (5) when the nonresi- dent has preemptive purchase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was bu i lt by the nonres ident on personal land; (7) when expressly permitted under separate legislation; (8) when branches of foreign banks, commercial insurance com- panies, security traders, or trustees use the real estate in the course of their core business activity; and (9) effective January 1, 2002, in the case of nonresidents domiciled in EU or OECD countries who have established a branch in the Slovak Republic and need the real estate for business purposes. Controls on personal capital transactions n .r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks must conduct the ir ac t iv i t ies in accordance w i th the ir bank ing license. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed in accordance with the banking license. Maintenance of accounts abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad is allowed in accordance with the bank ing or foreign ex- change license. Lending to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing is allowed w i th the bank ing license, Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed in accordance w i th the banking license. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits A foreign exchange permit f rom the NBS is requ ired when the bank ing license does not inc lude acqu irement of real estate abroad or dea l ing in foreign securities except for foreign direct investment in an OECD or EEA member country. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, banks may not invest more than 15% of the ir cash reserves in a foreign company abroad, nor may the total of all inves tmen ts in foreign companies abroad exceed 60% of a bank 's own fund s. The same regu la t ions apply to both residents and nonresidents. Five categories —5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50% —for investment are def ined, for which the investors are required to obtain pr ior NBS approval. Effective January 1, 2003, as a part of market risk, open foreign exchange positions are monitored in the banks' own funds regulations (NBS Decree No. 6 of December 12, 2002). Prior to this date, open foreign exchange positions were limited to 15% and 10% of a bank's capital, in euros and all other currencies, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Five categories —5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50% —are de f ined w i th respect to a security t rade r 's who le equ i ty, and for wh ich a permit f rom the FMA is requ ired. This regulation applies to both residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Imports and import payments Capital transactions Con t ro ls on d i rect inve s tment Changes During 2002 January 1. The nonau toma t ic l icens ing system was applied to (1) soft dr inks from the Czech Repub l ic, (2) sugar from all countries except the Czech Republic, (3) diamonds from Sierra Leone, and (4) shoes from Ch ina. January I. The d i rect inves tmen ts of residents in EEA and OECD member countries were l ibe ra l ized. Con t ro ls on real estate t r an s a c t ions January I. A fo re ign exchange perm it is requ i red for purchase of real estate abroad by residents, except for purchases in OECD or EEA member countries. January I. Non res iden ts dom ic i led in EU or OECD coun tr ies who have established a branch in the Slovak Repub l ic were allowed to acquire property rights to real estate nec- essary for the acqu is i t ion of business premises for that branch. P rov is ions specific to commercial banks and other cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns January I. Banks were proh ib i ted f rom investing more than 15% of their own funds in a foreign company abroad, and the total of a bank's investments in such companies was l im i t ed to 60% of a b a n k 's own fund s. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Con t ro ls on d e r iv a t iv es and o ther i n s t r um e n ts P r o v i s i o ns spec i f ic to comme rc ial b anks and o ther c red it i n s t i t u t i o ns Changes During 2003 January 1. A nonau toma t ic l icens ing system was applied to sugar from all countries and d iamonds f rom Sierra Leone. January 1. Export licenses were required for a restricted number of agricultural goods and raw materials, such as scrap or raw skins. January 1. Transac t ions in f i n a n c i al der iva t ives loca l ly and abroad were liberalized. January I. As a part of market r isk, open fo re ign exchange pos i t ions began to be monitored in banks' own f u n ds regu la t ions (NBS Decree No. 6 of December 12, 2002). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Slovenia is the Slovenian tolar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The external va lue of the tolar is determined in the in terbank exchange market, in which the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may participate. The BOS may also buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Ju- ridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks. Between January 1, 2002, and March 7, 2002, the BOS published the rate daily as a moving 14-day average (from a moving 60-day average). Effec t ive March 8, 2002, the BOS publishes th is rate as a daily moving average. Because the authorities manage the float of the tolar within certain f luc tua t ing margins around a depreciating path, the exchange rate arrangement of Slovenia was reclassified, effective February 1, 2002, to the category crawling band from the category managed float- ing with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Slovenia ma in ta ins a payments agreement w i th the fo rmer Yugos lav Repub l ic of Mace- donia. The agreement allows ju r id ical persons to conduct transactions through nonresi- dents' accounts. Also, there is an agreement w i th I ta ly related to trade between the two border regions. S loven ia is a member of the CEFTA. Exchange control is exercised by (1) the BOS on the foreign exchange operations of banks and foreign exchange offices; (2) the Foreign Exchange Inspectorate within the MOF on foreign exchange and foreign trade operations of natural and juridical persons other than banks; and (3) the customs authorities, who ver ify that the necessary conditions are met for the cross-border transfers of goods, banknotes, securities, and gold. International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 873 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 SLOVENIA In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, Slovenia maintains certain restric- tions with regard to Serbia and Montenegro and has frozen the funds and other financial resources of Iraq, the Taliban, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. No. n.r. On January 1, 2002, restrictions on imports and exports of domestic and foreign banknotes by residents and nonresidents were abolished. In accordance with the Law on the Preven- tion of Money Laundering, however, imports and exports of banknotes and securities ex- ceeding the equivalent of SIT 3 million must be reported to the customs authorities (previ- ously, imports and exports of foreign currency exceeding SIT 2.8 m i l l ion had to be reported). Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad All residents may open and operate foreign exchange accounts w i thout restriction upon proof of identity. E f fec t ive February 1, 2003, all residents may open and maintain these accounts. Previously, the fo l low ing residents were allowed to maintain accounts abroad: (1) banks; (2) juridical persons; (3) natural persons with a temporary residence in Slovenia based on a valid resi- dent visa or work permit with a validity of more than six months; (4) natural persons with a permanent residence in Slovenia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad; and (5) residents (other than jur id ical persons) performing services in the international transportation of goods and passengers. Other residents could maintain accounts abroad on ly with BOS approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted All nonresidents may open and operate accounts w i thout restriction upon proof of identity. Domestic currency accounts There are no l im i ts on tolar cash withdrawals. Convertible into fore ign currency Yes. Blocked accounts To implement UN resolutions and for reasons of national security, the accounts pertaining to entities associated with the former government of Serbia and Montenegro are blocked. In accordance with UN resolutions, accounts are also blocked with respect to the Taliban, Iraq, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Commercial banks may requ ire documents ve r i fy ing the purpose of the transaction before effec t ing payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs SLOVENIA 875 Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of controlling items that affect security and public health, have been retained for specific groups of goods (seeds and p lan t ing materials of agricultural and forest plants, materials for breeding animals, pharma- ceutical products, military equ ipmen t, waste, tox ic and explosive substances, and precious metals), as well as original sculptures, statues, and an t iques, in accordance with interna- t ional conven t ions and codes. Slovenia ma in ta ins a system of import quotas applicable only to certain tex t i le products and c lo th ing. Annual import quotas are allocated to re levant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries w i th wh ich Slo- venia has free-trade agreements. In accordance w i th the WTO schedule, the bound tar iff rate for indus tr ial and agricul- tural products is 27% except for some agricultural products, for wh ich the bound tariff rate is either 45% or a ta r i ff rate p lus a specific duty. However, the conventional rate of du ty curren t ly applied is 8.76% on average for all sectors; for indus t ry it is 7.68%; and for agriculture, 12.6%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes Exports are not restricted except for certain items that are subject to l icens ing for security or health reasons in accordance w i th in terna t ional conven t ions and codes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Foreign secu r i t ies may be offered in S loven ia on ly th rough an authorized participant in the securities market. Domestic securities may be purchased and sold domestically only through an authorized domestic participant in the securities market. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, controls of purchases of securities on the domestic market by nonres iden ts were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 SLOVENIA Sale or issue l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts The issue of secu r i t ies by non res iden ts is governed by the regu la t ions on the securities market. Sale or i s sue abroad by res iden ts Res iden ts, o ther than banks and savings banks, must, after obtaining the prior approval of the MOF, have perm iss ion f rom the Secur i t ies Market Agency (SMA) to introduce equ i ty securities abroad. Effective February 1, 2003, the requirement that residents sell securities abroad so le ly th rough au thor ized dealers was l i f t ed. Bonds or other debt securities Pu r ch a se l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Sale or i s sue l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts On money ma rket in s t rum en ts Purchase locally by nonresidents E f f e c t ive J a n u a ry 1, 2002, con tro ls of purchases of secur i t ies on the domestic market by nonresidents were l i f ted. The issue of foreign debt secu r i t ies is permitted on ly w i th the permission of the MOF. To ob ta in perm iss ion, the issuer must have an adequate f inanc ial rating and the debt securities must have at least a three-year ma tu r i ty and must be denominated in tolars. E f f e c t ive J anu a ry 1, 2002, con tro ls of purchases of secur i t ies on the domestic market by non r e s id en ts were l i f t e d. Purchase abroad by residents The r egu l a t ions governing cap i tal market secur i t ies apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regu la t ions governing capital market securities apply. On co l lec t ive inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents The MOF sets the cond i t ions for the sale of these transactions. Effective January 2, 2003, fo re ign management companies are allowed to sell and market investment coupons in Slo- ven ia (1) th rough th e ir branches or (2) through persons authorized by foreign management company to manage inve s tment fund s. In both cases the permission of the SMA is required to establish a b ranch. The regu la t ions govern ing capital market securities apply. Effective January 2, 2003, man- agement companies may p rov ide services for management of investment funds ( inc lud ing ma rke t ing of inves tment f u n ds and s e l l ing of inves tment coupons and/or investment f u n d 's shares) e i ther th rough the ir branches or th rough a person who has been authorized by the management company to manage inves tment fund s. The permission of the SMA is required for the es tab l ishment of a branch abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regu la t ions governing capital market securities apply. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Ou tward d i rect i n v e s tm e nt Inward direct inves tment Res iden ts are obliged to report w i t h in 30 days the outward d irect investment to the MOF. Foreign direct investments are not allowed in the production and trade of m i l i tary equip- men t, and the p r o v i s i on of manda to ry pens ion and hea l th insu rance f inanced by the budget If not restricted by a special law, foreign direct inves tment in other f ie lds is allowed freely. Fore ign banks, i n s u r a n ce compan ies, and s tockb rok ing companies are allowed to open b ranches in S loven ia. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment The t ran s fer of proceeds is free of con t ro ls after all tax obligations in S loven ia have been met. Controls on real estate transactions Pu rcha se l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Fore igners may acqu i re the r ight to own real estate pu r suant to the prov is ions of a law or an in t e rn a t ion al agreement, und er cond i t ion of reciprocity. Foreign states may also acquire the r i g ht to own real estate used for d ip lom a t ic and consu lar purposes under the condition of rec ip roc i ty. Controls on personal cap ital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f f e r en t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements SLOVENIA 877 P r ior to Augu st 8, 2002, banks were ob l iga ted to ho ld m i n im um reserves w i th the BOS. The requ i red reserve ratios were applied on ly on to lar deposits. E f fec t ive t h is date, the re- qu i r ed reserve ra t io for deposits w i th up to a th ree -mon th term is 2% for deposits in fore ign exchange and 7% for to lar deposits. For deposits w i th longer terms, the reserve ratios are u n i f i ed at 2% for deposits w i th up to two-year terms, and zero for longer, irrespective of the currency. Banks are required to hold reserves in foreign exchange in the form of l iqu id assets abroad and investments in foreign currency b i l ls issued by the BOS. Effec t ive January 1, 2002, banks must observe l iqu id i ty ratios separately in respect of domestic and foreign currency- denominated assets and l iab i l i t ies and hold the required amount of currency b i l ls issued by the BOS. The coeff ic ien ts of l iqu id i ty of the domestic and foreign currency-denominated positions must be at least 1. In cases where a bank enters into a contract with the BOS, it may calculate the coefficients of l iqu id i ty for the tolar and foreign exchange proportions together. Inves tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents BOS approval is requ ired. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Banks are r equ i r ed to l im it th e ir d a i ly fo re ign exchange exposu re to 20% of th e ir cap i tal and the ir mon t h ly average fo re ign exchange exposu re to 10% of the ir cap i ta l. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors The Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies specifies that (1) nonresidents may own more than 20% of the shares of management companies on ly with the approval of the SMA; (2) nonresidents may own more than 10% of the shares of authorized manage- ment companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouch- ers in the privatization process) on ly w i th the approval of the SMA and the M in i s t ry of Economy; and (3) inves tment f u n d s' inve s tment in fore ign secu r i t ies may not exceed 10% of total inves tmen ts. The new Law on Inves tment Funds and Management Companies wh ich w ent in to e f fect J a n u a ry 2, 2003, l i f t ed a ll these con t ro ls. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Changes During 2002 January I. The BOS began to pub l i sh a d a i ly 14-day average exchange rate (p rev iou s ly, the BOS pub l ished a da i ly mov ing 60-day average exchange rate). February 1. The exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category c raw l ing band from the category managed f loa t ing w i th no p reannounced path for the exchange rate. March 8. The BOS began to pub l i sh a d a i ly exchange in te rbank market rate as the mov ing average d a i ly exchange rate. January I. Re s t r ic t ions on imports and exports of domes t ic and fore ign bankno tes by resi- den ts and non r e s id en ts were abo l ished. In accordance w i th the Law on the P reven t ion of Money L aund e r ing, howeve r, imports and exports of bankno tes and secu r i t ies exceed ing the equ iv a l ent of SIT 3 m i l l i on must be reported to the customs au tho r i t i es (p rev ious ly, impor ts and expor ts of fo re ign cu r rency exceed ing SIT 2.8 m i l l i on had to be reported). Con tro ls on cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts January I. Con t ro ls on purchases of secu r i t ies on the domes t ic market by non re s iden ts were l i f t e d. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 SLOVENIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Banks were requ ired to observe l iqu id i ty ratios separately in respect of domestic currency and foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and hold the required amount of currency b i l ls issued by the BOS. Resident accounts Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments August 8. The BOS introduced revised reserve requirements for deposits in foreign ex- change. The reserve ratios are 2% for deposits with up to a two-year term and zero for those with longer terms. Changes During 2003 February 1. All residents were allowed to open and ma in ta in accounts abroad. January 2. Foreign management companies were allowed to sell and market investments coupons in Slovenia (1) through their branches or (2) through persons authorized by the foreign management company to manage the investment funds. In both cases the permis- sion of the SMA is required for the es tab l ishment of a branch. February 1. The requirement that residents sell securities abroad on ly th rough authorized dealers was l i f t e d. Provisions specific to institutional in- vestors January 2. The new Investment Funds and Management Companies Act eliminated the rema in ing con tro ls applied to in s t i tu t ional investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 24, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The exchange rate of the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of the value of a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trading part- ners as a guide to daily variations of the parity. These variations, however, are programmed to yield modest weekly depreciations of the currency against the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, with daily variations limited to an undisclosed narrow band. The Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the CBSI and the public. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. No. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Islands in any currency. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met only by pay- ments in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a branch in the Solomon Islands. The Solomon Islands participate in the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the CBSI th rough the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations. The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain transactions. The l im it on payment applications that may be approved by commercial banks is US$1,000, or the equivalent, with the CBSI approving all other bona fide requests for for- eign exchange. The CBSI has introduced delays in external payments, with payments for amounts greater than US$25,000 but less than US$40,000 to be made in two equal weekly installments, and those for amounts higher than US$40,000 to be made in four equal weekly installments. Since Ju ly 1, 2002, the CBSI has provided foreign exchange only for items on a list of critical goods. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such 879 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 880 SOLOMON ISLANDS Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Foreign currency transactions. Commercial m in ing companies require a license from the M in is try of Natural Resources (MONR) to mine gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the MONR to m ine, buy, or export gold. Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SIS250 w i thout the approval of the CBSI, wh ich is not no rma l ly given. Non res iden ts v i s i t ing the Solomon Islands may b r ing in any amount of currency for travel costs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts when there is a g enu ine need. Exporters are allowed to hold 20% of their export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts. Accounts may be opened only in one currency, which is chosen by the exporter. He ld domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accoun ts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange accounts may be he ld, but proof of bona fide need is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be he ld on ly at authorized foreign exchange dealers. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Balances may be transferred abroad with the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. Approval requ i red Blocked accounts CBSI approval is requ ired for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. No mechan ism exists for these accounts. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$5,000 without ref- erence to the CBSI. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs The max imum import du ty is 20%. There is no duty on imports from Melanesian countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 8 81 Taxes co l lec ted t h r o u gh the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is lev ied on sales of fo re ign exchange exceed ing SI$3,000. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i t h in th ree mon ths of the date of export. Surrender requ iremen ts Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an au tho r ized dealer; exporters are allowed to re ta in 20% of t h e ir export earn ings. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements P resh ipment inspec t ion Goods for export are inspected by customs off icers. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Res iden ts may export goods, other than round logs, w i thout exchange con trol forma l i t ies, but they must comp ly w i th the terms of a general au tho r iza t ion issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs r equ i re spec if ic au tho r i ty f rom the CBSI and a market price certificate issued by the M in i s t ry of Forestry, Conservation, and Environment. If exporters cannot meet the cond i t ions of a general au thor iza t ion (repatriation, surrender, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for specific authorization. Au tho r i z a t ion is not needed for goods va lued und er SIS250 in any one cons ignment or for ce r ta in exempt ca tegor ies of goods, i n c l u d i ng most personal e f fec ts of i n d i v i d u al trave lers. Exports of logs are subject to an export du ty of 35%. If the va lue is greater than SI$250 per cub ic meter, the tax is 38%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits App roval is r e ad i ly granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas and for pay- men ts of services and rem i t tances of d iv idends, p ro f i ts, and other earnings acc ru ing to non- residents from companies in the Solomon Islands on submission of proof that they are p rope r ly due. L im i ts on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments are based on the p rev iou s ly approved repayment schedu le. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval App roval is no rm a l ly granted for the purchase of fore ign currency for trave l. App l ica t ions for travel funds must be subm i t ted to an au thor ized dealer, and presen ta t ion of passports and a i r l ine t icke ts is required. App roval is r e a d i ly g ran ted. In the case of med ical expenses, the app l i c a t ion must be sup- ported by an invo ice from the prov ider of the med ical services, or f rom an educa t ional in- s t i tu t ion for studies abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is read i ly granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 882 SOLOMON ISLANDS Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Yes. Approval is requ i red, but it is read i ly granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Approval is requ ired for the disposal of proceeds other than through sales to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive investment secur i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments CBSI approval is requ ired for all capital and money market transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 883 Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Only the acceptance of guarantees, securities, and financial backup facilities from nonresi- dents is free of controls. Investment by resident ind iv idua ls or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain conditions, inc lud ing the likely benefit to the Solomon Islands. Approval by the Foreign Investment Board (FIB) is required for initial or increased foreign investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Approval is readily granted for the transfer of proceeds. Sales of investments by nonresi- dents to either residents or nonresidents require FIB approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Only the transfer of assets in to the country by immigrants is free of controls. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements The l iqu id asset requ irement is 7.5%. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 884 SOLOMON ISLANDS Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Limits are set at SI$2.5 m i l l ion for each commercial bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies must obtain permission from the Commissioner of Insurance to remit re insu rance prem iums abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts July I. The CBSI under took to provide foreign exchange on ly for items on a list of critical goods. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Somalia is the Somali sh i l l ing. There are two exchange markets: (1) the o f f ic ial market, compr is ing the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and the two commercial banks operating as authorized dealers. The rate in this market applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the gov- ernment; and (2) a free market, in wh ich the exchange rate is f ree ly negotiated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali sh i l l ing is determined freely in the foreign exchange mar- ket by supp ly and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements w i th other countries must be made in Somali sh i l l ings or in specified currencies (Djibouti francs, euros, Kuwaiti dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, pounds s ter l ing, and dollars); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel. Payments arrangements Yes. Administration of control Exchange l icens ing is the respons ib i l i ty of the CBS. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade n.a. n.a. Residents may hold and acquire, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the CBS; permission is not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies and indus tr ial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down w i th in one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that origi- nate in member coun t r ies of the EU are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are sub ject to a 10% du ty. 885 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 886 SOMALIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents may bring in with them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers w i thout diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Com- mercial and Savings Bank, which acts on behalf of the CBS. Resident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through external accounts are effected at the off ic ial exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers holding export/import accounts and may be used only for payments for merchandise imports. Held domestically Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in dollars may be opened with the CBS by foreign embassies, international institutions, and nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports All payments for private imports must be effected through LCs. Private importers may establish LCs for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in these cases, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account un t il the time of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirements Yes. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A non-interest bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is required to open LCs for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the LCs are settled. Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 887 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of a lcoho l, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medi- cal and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewelry, and minerals are subject to pr ior approval. All other items, except those proh ib i ted for reasons of pub l ic safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Negative l ist Yes. Other non ta r i ff measures Imports of goods o r ig ina t ing in or shipped from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repa tr ia ted. Surrender requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may re ta in 40% of the ir foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized deal- ers. Exporters of non t rad i t ional goods may re ta in 70% of the ir export earnings. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes An advance payment deposit of 100% of the va lue of exports is requ ired for exports other than those made under LC arrangements. Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT. Exports of va r ious types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals are sub- ject to prior approval. Yes. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of du ty co l lec t ion. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments to Israel are proh ib i ted. To prevent unau tho r ized capital transfers, payments for cu r rent inv is ib les through external accounts, as well as th rough the commercial banks sell- ing fore ign exchange on th e ir own accoun t, are subject to l icens ing. Yes. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. The CBS provides fo re ign exchange on ly for o f f i c i al travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased on ly f rom holders of external accounts, with the approval of the CBS. Yes. There is a l im it of the e q u i v a l e nt of $200 a person a t r ip for bus iness and tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve app l ica t ions for larger amoun ts in exceptional cases. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The l im it is the equ iv a l ent of $3,000 a year for medical expenses. The l im it is $1,000 a year for s tud ies abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases for medical expenses and studies abroad. Foreign workers' wages Other payments Prior approval Transfers of salaries, wages, gra tu i t ies, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50%. Yes. Quantitative limits In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of subscription and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from i n v i s i b l es must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the rema inder to the CBS or to authorized dealers w i th in five bus iness days of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transac t ions are subject to l icen s ing unless they are authorized by the Foreign In- vestment Law. On capital market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations There are con t ro ls on all cred it operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Yes. Inward d irect inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Inves tmen ts must be approved by the Foreign Investment Board, wh ich reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, w i th in a 60-day period. Foreign inve s tment (o r ig inal inves tment p lus any p ro f it reinvested) may be free ly repatri- ated f ive years f rom the date of the registration of the or ig inal investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical as- sets. The Foreign Inves tment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five-year period. Capital gains re su l t ing from the sale of shares or l iqu ida t ion of assets are f ree ly transferable af ter taxes are pa id. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 889 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. Changes During 1999-2002 The informa t ion provided on the exchange and trade system of Somalia is tentative, as the IMF has received l im i ted information from the au thor i t ies in this area since 1998. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of May 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of South Afr ica is the South African rand. Certain gold coins, including the Krugerrand, are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rand is determined in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Afr ica do not maintain margins with respect to exchange transactions, but may execute transactions in the exchange market, which are typically dollar/rand transactions. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, inc lud ing cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and as- certained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or from nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Subject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. The South African Reserve Bank (SARE) may authorize requests to buy dollars outright forward. The SARB participates only in the short-term (maturities not exceeding 12 months) forward market on its own initiative and at rates quoted in the market by au- thorized dealers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia, but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland). Lilan- geni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar banknotes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. The rand may not be used in any foreign exchange transaction, except as described above, Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 890 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 891 Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions South A f r ica is a member of the CM A. Payments w i th in the CM A are unrestricted. Exchange l icen s ing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treasury, wh ich has delegated this au thor i ty to the SARD; in tu rn, the SARB has permitted authorized dealers in foreign exchange to deal w i th most t ransac t ions w i thout prior reference to the SARB. South A f r ica m a in t a ins res tr ic t ions on current payments and transfers to Iraq, amended in accordance with UN Security Counc il Resolution 986. Restrictions on the transfer of funds to the Taliban and to the UNITA movement in Ango la are also in place in accordance with UN Security Counc il Resolutions 1267, 1333, and 1390. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents of South A f r i ca may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for nu- mismatic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized indu s t r ial and professional users are allowed to pur- chase, ho ld, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewelry. Gold producers may elect to sell the ir total ou tput to approved counterparties, provided the SARB has given the necessary exemp t ion from the re levant exchange control regu la t ions. This inc ludes sales to foreign counterparties. The cu r rent exchange control regulations pertaining to the repatriation of export proceeds rema in app l icab le to gold exports. The m int strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, wh ich are legal tender, w i thout a face value, and these are made available in l im i ted numbe rs to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Authorized dealers have been permitted by the SARB to approve exports of jewe l ry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South A f r i ca on the t rave le r 's re turn); and for exports of gold jewe lry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers, sub ject to a w r i t ten dec la ra t ion that the articles are in f u l ly manufac tured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the se l l ing price to the ultimate consignee. Fur thermore, af ter approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, i n c l u d i ng certain gold co ins, for sale to num isma t is ts. Bankno tes up to R 5,000 may be exported, but th is amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel a l lowance. The l im i ta t ion does not apply to migrant workers re turn ing to n e ighbo r ing coun t r ie s, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in bank- notes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Na- m ib ia, and Swaz i land. Foreign v is i tors leav ing South A f r ica may take w i th them up to R 5,000 in SARB bankno tes. South A f r ican bankno tes repatriated f rom Ango la, Botswana, the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe may be remitted upon subm iss ion of documen tary evidence that they were not exported from South A f r i ca in con t raven t ion of the exchange control regu la t ions. The consignment of banknotes must be accompanied by the con f i rma t ion of the repa t r ia t ing bank that the banknotes were acqu ired from bona f ide travelers f rom South A f r i ca in amoun ts not exceeding R 5,000 a traveler. Re s iden ts and con t ract workers leav ing South A f r i ca for des t ina t ions ou ts ide the CMA may take out th e ir a l lowance in fo re ign banknotes. Foreign v is i to rs leaving South A f r ica may take w i th them any amount of fore ign bankno tes b rought in to the coun t ry or obtained th rough the disposal of in s t rum en ts of exchange brought in to and converted in South A f r ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 892 SOUTH AFRICA On imports Domestic currency The l im it on banknotes that may be imported from countries outside the CMA is R 5,000. There are no l im i ta t ions on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Approval required Na tu ral persons may ho ld foreign currency deposits with authorized dealers. Natural per- sons are allowed to invest R 750,000 abroad. These funds may also be held in a foreign currency accoun t. Prior approval is requ ired to ho ld these accounts. Yes. Approval is granted based on the mer it of the app l ica t ion, and in most circumstances on ly if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be fac i l i- tated. South A f r ican na tural persons may invest abroad up to an amount of R 750,000 and may re ta in abroad foreign-earned income. No prior approval is required to open foreign bank accounts for these purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ ired Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Au tho r ized dealers are requ i red to open separate nonres ident accounts on behalf of non- res ident c l i en ts in order to d i s t ingu i sh between normal c lear ing accoun ts and foreign ex- change t rad ing accounts. The aim of th is requ i rement is to isolate these transactions for mon i tor ing purposes and it does not affect the transferability of funds. Foreign currency accounts may be opened for nonresidents and funds on these accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout restriction. These accoun ts may be cred i ted w i th all au thor ized payments by residents, w i th the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign cu r rency to authorized dealers, and w i th payments from other nonres ident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (o ther than loans); for payments to nonres iden ts for any purpose; for transfer to a local non re s ident account or for rem i t tance to any country outside the CMA; for payments of the cost of purchases of a ny foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South A f r i ca for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accoun ts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange con- trol restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the time of depar ture and sub sequen t ly sold must be credited to th is type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to ano ther emigrant blocked account in South A f r ica but must be retained on deposit w i th an authorized dealer and used w i th in certain limits for the ho ld e r 's l i v i ng expenses w h i le v i s i t ing Sou th A f r ica, for other specified payments to resi- den ts, or for inve s tment in any loca l ly quo ted secur i t ies (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 893 Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Payments may not be made before the date of shipment or dispatch without prior SARB approval, except for imports of capital goods. Authorized dealers may permit, w i thout the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are au toma t ica l ly granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon pre- sen t ing to the ir bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importa- t ion) and an import permit when requ i red. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Nega t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Imports that do not require a permit inc lude all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Nam ib ia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, w i th the exception of a l im i ted range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The nega t ive l i st in c lud es all used goods, in c lud ing waste and scrap; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks; dairy products; dried fru i t; black tea; certain vegetables and agricultural products; wines; mineral fuels; radioactive chemicals; new pneumatic tires; gold; certain minerals; firearms; gambling machines; ozone-depleting substances; and footwear and footwear components. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Subdirectorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Import quotas apply to certain agricultural and a number of manufac tured products, inc lud- ing clothing and textiles imported from Zimbabwe supported with a Quota and Origin Cer- tificate issued by the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce of Zimbabwe. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariff rates range up to 69%. A 14% VAT is levied on imports from Botswana, Lesotho, Nam ib ia, and Swaziland. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa within 30 days of accrual. Exporters may retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in cus- tomer foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Un less otherwise perm i t ted, all export proceeds must be offered for sale w i th in six months of the date of sh ipment or 30 days of the date of accrual, whichever is sooner. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for wh ich the f u ll proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward the ir export proceeds. Au thor ized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 mon ths, provided the credit is necessary in that par t icu lar trade or needed to protect an ex is t ing export market or cap ture a new one. All exports over R 50,000 must be supported by a declaration (on Forms F178 or N.E.P.), irrespective of the ir country of destination. Certain ag r icu l tu ral and manu fac tu red goods exported outside the SACU requ ire export permits. In add i t ion to an export perm i t, m i l i ta ry equ ipmen t, firearms, and ammun i t ion r equ i re an export l icense issued by the Department of Defense. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 894 SOUTH AFRICA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Most l im i ts have been removed. Documentary evidence must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Authorized dealers may perm it the transfer of commissions against documentary evidence confirming the amount invo lved, provided the rate of commission is normal in the particu- lar trade. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. E f fec t ive February 26, 2003, South A f r ican residents trave l ing abroad for business or ho l i- day are allowed R 160,000 a calendar year a person 12 years or older, and R 50,000 for each child under 12 years without any daily limit, irrespective of the country of destination (previously R 140,000 and R 45,000, respectively). Corporations qua l i fy for a global travel allowance of R 2 million a calendar year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the SARB. Personal payments Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval E f fec t ive February 26, 2003, the l im it on l i v i ng expenses for a student is R 160,000 a year and to R 320,000 if accompanied by a spouse (prev ious ly R 140,000 and R 280,000, re- spectively). On the same date, the student ho l iday allowance was increased to R 50,000 and to R 100,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously R 45,000 and R 90,000, respectively). The limit on alimony payment with a court order is R 9,000 a month. Authorized dealers may effect transfers for fam i ly maintenance purposes at a rate not exceeding R 9,000 (pre- v ious ly R 7,000) a month a fam i ly, provided the proposed beneficiaries are either the fa- ther, mother, brother, or sister of the applicant and are in necessitous circumstances. Prior SARB approval is required for amounts exceeding this limit. Approval is not required in respect of travel expenditures. Expend i tu re may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Au thor ized dealers may permit remittances of technical service fees, legal fees, and court costs incurred outside the CMA against the production of documentary evidence confirm- ing the amount involved. Authorized dealers may grant approval for royalty payments, provided the Department of Trade and Industry has approved the relevant royalty agree- ment. Authorized dealers may also permit the remittance of profits and dividends, provided it does not involve excessive use of local credit facilities. Income earned from securities he ld by nonres iden ts is f ree ly transferab le to the ir coun try of residence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements South Afr ican residents (private ind iv idua ls) earning income abroad from any source other than merchandise exports may retain these funds abroad. Corporate entities are required to remit earnings to South Africa w i th in 30 days of accrual. Entities may retain the proceeds of services rendered for 180 days after accrual in the customer's foreign currency accounts w i th au tho r ized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Capital Transactions 895 Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior exchange control approval, which is not normally granted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to six months. Banks may in certain circumstances allow a further extension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control ap- proval. In respect to services, payment has to be received under the terms of the contract between the parties within a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended without prior approval. However, nonresident wholly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total share- holders' investment (i.e., the paid-up equity capital; preference shares; undistributed prof- its; shareholders' loans from abroad; and, in certain instances, the hard core of sharehold- ers' trade credit). The ability to borrow locally, which is generally granted, increases with the size of local participation by a set formula. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Effective October 29, 2002, firms may borrow abroad using their South African balance sheets as collateral in cases where the investment w i th in A f r ica exceeds R 2 b i l l ion (previously, exceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 896 SOUTH AFRICA Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward d irect investment R 750 m i l l ion ). E f fec t ive February 26, 2003, th is was extended to investments outside Af- rica exceeding R 1 b i l l ion. Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transactions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Requests by corporations are considered in light of na t ional interest, such as the benef it to South A f r ica 's in terna t ional reserves by, for exam- ple, generating exports of goods and services. Effective October 29, 2002, domestic corpo- rations may transfer up to R 2 b i l l ion (previously R 750 m i l l ion) to f inance new invest- ments in Afr ica. Effec t ive February 26, 2003, domestic corporations may transfer up to R 1 b i l l ion (previously R 500 million) to finance new investments outside of Africa. Corpo- rations are also allowed to transfer additional foreign currency of up to 10% of the cost in excess of the aforementioned amounts. Consideration w i ll be given for additional "top-up" fund ing for the f inanc ing of new approved expansion of existing, prior exchange control- approved foreign operations. The top-up fund ing for expansion of existing foreign invest- ments is calculated as a max imum of the d ifference between the new l im i ts of R 2 b i l l ion and R 1 b i l l ion, respectively, and the approved amount of South African funds initially transferred to f inance the original investment. The aforementioned limitations are not ap- plicable to Namibia, Swaziland, or Lesotho, to which funds already flow freely. Ind iv idua ls over 18 years of age may invest up to R 750,000 overseas or in a foreign cur- rency account in South Africa, provided they obtain a tax clearance certificate from the South Afr ican Revenue Service. There are no limits on the type of investment and no re- qu i rement to advise the authorities of how the funds are used. Income earned abroad and own foreign capital introduced into the Republic on or after Ju ly 1, 1997, by private indi- v idual residents in South A f r ica may be retransferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied that the income and/or capital had previously been converted to rand, by viewing documentary evidence confirming the amounts involved. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowments, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 750,000 foreign invest- ment l im i t. Other purchases require pr ior exchange control approval. Effective February 26, 2003, residents may lend to nonresidents through authorized dealers, up to R 30,000 a year (prev ious ly, R 25,000). Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are genera l ly not permitted. Prior approval, wh ich is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of the loan do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest paid is reasonable in terms of p reva i l ing international rates. E f fec t ive February 26, 2003, authorized dealers may a l low the transfer of monetary g if ts, inc lud ing loans referred to above, w i th in a limit of R 30,000 (previously R 25,000) an ap- p l icant du r ing a calendar year. Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distri- bu t ions from estates may be remitted abroad. Au thor ized dealers may provide immigrants w i th exchange to repay loans received in their previous country of domicile for the specific purpose of financing their relocation to South A f r ica, provided documen tary evidence of the debt is available and the immigrant is not in possession of foreign currency to repay the debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad SOUTH AFRICA 897 E f fec t ive February 26, 2003, emigrants are allowed to transfer up to R 1.5 million a fam i ly u n it or R 750,000 an ind iv idu a l, in c lu s ive of any assets prev ious ly transferred abroad. As a fu r ther d ispensa t ion, emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad funds in excess of the a fo remen t ioned l im i ts, subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the limit. All other assets remain blocked in South Afr ica. The emigrant may subsequently repatriate the annual income from those blocked assets, but is prohibited from disposing of the assets, either by sale to South African residents or by asset swaps with either a foreign or South A f r ican counterpart. Authorized dealers may also authorize the export of any household and personal effects, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (exc lud ing coins that are legal tender in the Republic) for a family un it or single person emigrating, w i th in the overall insured va lue of R 1 m i l l ion. All borrowing abroad by residents requires exchange control approval. Banks may contract short-term work ing capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Banks may open nostro accounts at the ir d iscre t ion. Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000, provided that the total credit made available to an ind iv id- ual from any source does not exceed th is amount. Exchange control approval is requ ired for f a c i l i t i es exceed ing th is amoun t. Foreign investors are allowed to borrow domestically an amount of rand equ iv a l ent to the va lue of the fore ign exchange they brought in to South Africa. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Afr ica. Reserve requ iremen ts on all deposit accounts held by residents or nonresidents and de- nominated in either rand or foreign exchange are 2.5% of total deposit liabilities, adjusted with specific provisions. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of total liabilities, adjusted with specific provisions. Investment regu la t ions Inves tmen ts in immovable property and shares and loans or advances to certain subsidiaries of the bank are l im i ted to 100% of capital p lus reserves. Abroad by banks Prior approval of the Registrar of Banks and Exchange Control is required. In banks by nonresidents No approval is required if the shareholding is less than 15% of the bank's issued capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 10% of net qu a l i fy ing capital p lus reserves, for both resident and nonresident assets and l iab i l i t ies. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on secur i t ies issued by non res iden ts Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effec t ive May 1, 2003, long-term insurers, pension funds, and fund managers may transfer up to 15% of the ir total assets or, in the case of un it trust management companies, up to 20% of th e ir total assets under management, to acquire foreign portfolio investments. The prev ious res t r ic t ion was 10% of the prior year's net in f low of funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 SOUTH AFRICA Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ion al investors October 29. Firms were allowed to borrow abroad using the ir South A f r ican balance sheets as collateral in cases where the investment within Afr ica exceeds R 2 billion (previously, R 750 m i l l ion ). October 29. Domestic corporations were allowed to transfer up to R 2 b i l l ion (previously R 750 m i l l ion) to f inance new investments in A f r ica. Changes During 2003 February 26. South A f r ican residents traveling abroad for bus iness or holiday were allowed R 160,000 a calendar year a person 12 years or older, and R 50,000 for each ch i ld under 12 years w i thout any da i ly l im i t, irrespective of the coun try of destination (previously R 140,000 and R 45,000, respectively). February 26. The limit on l iv ing expenses for a student was increased to R 160,000 a year and to R 320,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously R 140,000 and R 280,000, respectively). February 26. Student ho l iday allowances were increased to R 50,000 and to R 100,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously, R 45,000 and R 90,000, respectively). February 26. A l imony payments w i th a court order were allowed up to R 9,000 a month (prev ious ly R 7,000). February 26. Payments for fam i ly ma in tenance were allowed up to R 9,000 a month (pre- v ious ly R 7,000). February 26. Firms were allowed to borrow abroad us ing the ir South A f r ican balance sheet as collateral in cases where the investment acquired outside A f r ica exceeds R 1 b i l l ion. February 26. Domestic corporations were allowed to transfer up to R 1 b i l l i on (previously R 500 m i l l ion) to f inance new investments ou ts ide of Afr ica. Corporations were also al- lowed to transfer additional foreign currency of up to 10% of the cost in excess of the aforementioned amounts. Consideration would be given for additional "top-up" fund ing for the f inanc ing of new approved expansion of existing, prior exchange control-approved, foreign operations. The "top-up" fund ing for expansion of ex is t ing foreign investments would be calculated as a maximum of the difference between the new limits of R 2 b i l l ion and R 1 b i l l i o n, respectively, and the approved amount of South Afr ican funds in i t ia l ly transferred to f inance the or ig inal investment. The aforementioned l im i ta t ions wou ld not be applicable to Namibia, Swaziland, and Lesotho, to which funds already f low freely. February 26. Residents were allowed to lend to nonresidents, through an authorized dealer, up to R 30,000 a year (prev ious ly, R 25,000). Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are generally not permitted. February 26. Authorized dealers were allowed the transfer of monetary gifts, including loans, w i th in a l im it of R 30,000 (previously R 25,000) an applicant during a calendar year. February 26. Emigrants were allowed to transfer up to R 1.5 million a family unit or R 750,000 an ind iv idua l, inc lu s ive of any assets prev ious ly transferred abroad. As a further dispensation, emigrants were allowed to transfer abroad funds in excess of the aforemen- tioned limits, subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the l im i t. May 1. Long-term insurers, pens ion fund s, and fund managers were allowed to transfer up to 15% of the ir total assets and, in the case of u n it trust management companies, up to 20% of their total assets under management, to acquire foreign por tfo l io investments (the previ- ous res tr ic t ion was 10% of the prior year's net in f low of funds). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Spain is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Spanish peseta remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Spanish peseta and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Spain participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Por- tugal. The conversion rate between the euro and the Spanish peseta was set at Ptas 166.386 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and futures in euros are traded in major financial markets. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Payments and receipts between residents and nonresidents are free. However, under special circumstances, the Ministry of Economy (MOE) may impose restrictions to protect national interest or to comply with the rules of international organizations. Payments and receipts exceeding €12,500 must be reported to the MOE and the Bank of Spain (BOS). In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe (the latter as of February 18, 2002). In accordance with EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are pro- hibited. On December 20, 2002, restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. No. No. Imports and exports of banknotes in excess of the equivalent of €6,010.12 (prior to Jan- uary 1, 2002, Ptas 1 million) must be declared. Imports and exports of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions require prior notification to the BOS. 899 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 900 SPAIN Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Co l lec t ions and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to these accounts may be f ree ly made. However, account holders are required to report the open ing of such accounts and to provide informa t ion pertaining to credit and debit activities occurr ing in the accounts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Spain applies the EU common-import regime. In addition, imports of certain defense mate- rials require prior authorization from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. Yes. In accordance with EU regulations, Spain requires licenses with quotas for certain imports, such as steel and tex t i le products, depending on the country of origin. Import taxes and/or tariffs Spain applies the EU common custom ta r i f fs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports of certain defense materials requ i re pr ior au thor iza t ion from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 901 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers In accordance w i th the Royal Decree on Economic Foreign Transactions, all payments, receipts, and transfers between residents and nonresidents exceeding €12,500 must be de- clared to the deposit ins t i tu t ions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Residents are free to carry out capital transactions. However, payments and receipts ex- ceeding €12,500 must be reported to the MOE and the BOS. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Residents other than banks are required to report to the BOS loans to nonresidents exceed- ing €600,000 w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than one year. To residents from nonresidents Residents other than registered ins t i tu t ions are requ ired to f i le reports to the BOS for credits exceeding €600,000 w i th a ma tur i ty of more than one year. Financial credits Residents other than banks are required to f i le a declaration with the BOS for transactions exceeding €3 m i l l ion. To residents from nonresidents Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS for transactions exceeding €3 m i l l ion. Controls on direct investment Certain investments must be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The l i qu i d a t ion of certain inves tmen ts must be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases exceeding €1 .5 m i l l i on (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 250 m i l l ion) must be re- ported to the MOF's Register of Investments. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases exceeding €3 m i l l i on (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 m i l l ion) must be re- ported to the MOF's Register of Investments. Sale locally by nonresidents Sales exceeding €3 m i l l ion (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 million) must be reported to the MOF's Register of Inves tmen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 902 SPAIN Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Residents may f ree ly transact with nonresidents and receive and extend loans, but transac- tions exceeding €3 m i l l ion (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 m i l l ion) must be reported to the BOS. Borrowing abroad Financial credits obtained must be reported to the BOS. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publications applicable to credit institutions. Yes. EU investors, even though they may be authorized credit institutions in other EU countries, must obtain prior administrative notice. Non-EU institutions may be denied authorization if corporate credit institutions do not enjoy reciprocity in the country of origin of the investor. Regulations differ according to the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws In l ine with EU securities directives, foreign listing is subject only to the f i l i ng of a pro- spectus on the same conditions as domestic issuers. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Spanish peseta could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 18. Certain f inanc ial transactions w i th Zimbabwe were prohibited. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. F inanc ing of and f inanc ial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is determined by supply and demand in the mar- ket. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) indicates the weighted average interbank rate on a daily basis and participates in buying and selling foreign exchange at or near market prices. Because most of the administrative controls that were enacted after the float of the rupee in 2001 have been eliminated, the exchange arrangement of Sri Lanka has been re- classified, effec t ive April 1, 2002, to the category independently floating from the category managed f loa t ing with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. No. No. Forward sales are permitted up to a period of 360 days (prior to March 1, 2002, 180 days), applicable to payments and receipts in foreign exchange for trade in goods and services. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current trans- actions are determined freely. Effective January 21, 2003, the period for forward sales of foreign exchange by banks for repayment of foreign loans is 720 days. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions and settlements are effected in dollars. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees, pro- vided that the supplier maintains a non res ident rupee account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by credit- ing Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior approval of the CBSL. Sri Lanka is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through authorized commercial banks in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange (COE). Remittances may also be made through post o f f ices under permits issued by the COE. The Board of Investment (BOI) hand les app l ica t ions re la t ing to foreign investments in Sri Lanka where special concessions are sought. General permission has been granted for investment by nonresidents in companies whose equity capital is in rupees, subject to certain exclusions and limitations, provided such in- vestments are made through share investment external rupee accounts (SIERAs). International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On February 13, 2002, the Sri Lankan authorities notified the IMF that Da Afghanistan Bank and its off ices had been withdrawn from the list of ind iv idua ls and entities whose assets were frozen in accordance w i th UN Secur i ty Counc il reso lu t ions. Effec t ive 903 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 904 SRI LANKA In acco rdance w i th UN sanc t ions September 3, 2002, a new consolidated l ist of ind iv idua ls and entities associated with ter- ro r ism was sent to banks and other f in an c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns to freeze all capital and assets be- l o n g i ng to such i n d i v i d u a ls and en t i t ies in accordance w i th UN Secur i ty Counc il Resolu- t ions 1267, 1333, and 1390. P u r s u a nt to the re levant UN Secu r i ty Coun c il reso lu t ions, banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu- t ions have been ins t ruc ted to freeze all capital and assets of ind iv idua l s, entities, and or- gan iza t ions associated w i th terrorism, and p r ior approval is required to maintain corre- sponding accounts w i th banks and other f inanc ial institutions that do not have a physical presence in any coun try, also referred to as "shell banks." Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Con t ro ls on ex te rnal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld dome s t ica l ly E f fec t ive November 22, 2002, commerc ial banks and l im i ted l i ab i l i ty companies approved by the COE may impo rt gold on a cons ignment account basis, subject to terms and condi- t ions imposed by the COE. E f f e c t ive March 16, 2002, Sri Lankan na t iona ls are allowed to take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000 (previously, SL Rs 1,000). Un spent rupee ba lances f rom fore ign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted in to fore ign cu r rency notes on ly at exit points, against or ig inal encashment documents issued by authorized dealers or money changers, and may be taken out. Indi- v idua ls may take out foreign currency for travel purposes but are required to declare it to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equ iva len t. E f f e c t ive March 16, 2002, Sri Lankan na t iona ls are allowed to br ing in to Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000 (prev ious ly, SL Rs 1,000). Travelers must dec lare at en t ry fore ign exchange ho ld ings exceeding $10,000 or its equ iva- l e n t. In the case of nonconve r t ib le currencies, a dec lara t ion has to be made, irrespective of the amoun t. Certain foreign currencies may not be imported. Resident Accounts Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts with a m in imum bal- ance e q u i v a l e nt to $500 in designated cu r renc ies, provided the funds do not relate to any t ran sac t ion s. These accoun ts may be m a in t a in ed even if the ba lance f a l ls below $500 or its e q u i v a l e n t. He ld abroad Except in the case of exporters, p r ior approval is requ i red to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Approval is requ i red. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Sri L ank ans emp loyed abroad and n o n n a t i o n a ls of Sri Lankan o r ig in who are employed and res ide abroad may m a i n t a in non r e s id ent fo re ign currency (NRFC) accoun ts in designated fo re ign cu r renc ie s. Credits to these accoun ts are l im i ted to remittances from employment earn ings abroad, foreign exchange earnings received in foreign currency and brought into ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts SRI LANKA 905 the country by the above-mentioned individuals, approved investment income, and interest payments on the accounts. Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, w i th some exceptions. Dividends and profits earned and sale pro- ceeds from such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to NRFC ac- counts without the prior approval of the COE. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 13 designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic un it of the bank and not by its foreign currency banking unit (FCBU). The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the COE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to outward remittances and to payments after converting into Sri Lanka rupees. Effective January 31, 2002, sh ipp ing and a ir l ine agents may also maintain foreign currency accounts in local branches of t h e ir respective fore ign banks for the purpose of collecting fre ight paid in foreign currency by exporters on ly. These accounts may be held by (1) nonna t iona ls residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lankan nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. For categories (1), (2), and (3), credits from inward remittances and debits for local disbursements or outward remittances may be ef- fected free ly th rough these accounts; however, local credits to these accounts require prior approval. Interest may be paid on these domestic currency accounts. Accounts held by emi- grants (category 4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received f rom the COE. Debits to such accounts for local disbursements may be f ree ly effected w i thout pr ior approval. Interest on blocked funds is permitted for outward rem i t tances net of taxes. However, local credits to these accounts and debits for outward rem i t tances invo lv ing capital funds over a ceiling of SL Rs 1 million a family (SL Rs 750,000 a person) require prior approval. Foreign banks (category 5) may open and operate nonresident accounts with local commercial banks without prior approval of the COE. Nonresidents, inc lud ing diplomatic missions, may maintain rupee accounts on an interest-bearing basis. On January 31, 2002, this facility was extended to include resident foreign passport holders. Convertible in to foreign currency These accoun ts are conver t ib le, but prior approval is requ ired. Blocked accounts These accoun ts are used to hold fund s, usua l ly those of nonresidents, repatriates, and emi- grants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them with pensions and income tax refunds. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum f in an c ing requ iremen ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments No. No. Authorized dealers may approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit non- resident accounts against applications for the opening of an LC, documents against pay- ment (DP) terms, or documen ts on acceptance (DA) terms, and against proof of a valid import license, where applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a con- s ignment does not exceed the equ iva lent of $3,000 (c.i.f.) with respect to raw materials and spare parts for the use of a par t icu lar indus try or for personal use. Imports may be effected against DP and DA terms and LCs. Inspection is required for certain consumer goods. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 906 SRI LANKA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements About 350 items at the six-digit level of the harmonized system code remained under im- port controls at the end of 2002, mostly for pub l ic health, pub l ic morals, environmental, or national security reasons. Paddy is subject to licensing to protect domestic producers against low prices. Motor vehi- cle bodies and parts, cigarette paper, and cashew nuts in shells are subject to licensing re- quirements. A total of 22 items are exempt from import duties, subject to the approval of the secretary of the treasury. The tariff structure on nonagricultural products consists of the following rates: zero, 2%, 5%, 10%, and 25%. The duty on selected items (e.g., refined petroleum and pharmaceutical products) is zero. Specific duties are imposed on selected items (e.g., potatoes). Effective November 6, 2002, tariff rates of 2% and 10% apply to items that were previ- ously duty free. E f fec t ive April 15, 2002, a temporary surcharge of 20% (previously, 40%) is applied to all products subject to duty, except certain essential goods. Selected agricultural products are subject to specific duties (e.g., rice, large onions, and potatoes). A Port and Airport Development levy of 1% of the c.i.f. value (0.75% for im- ports for processing and reexports—this was reduced to 0.50% on January 4, 2003) and a value-added tax with rates of zero, 10%, and 20% are applied. On Ju ly 31, 2002, the na- tional security levy of 6.5% was eliminated. Imports of certain items, including guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and crude oil, are restricted to government or state corporations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free either to repatriate export proceeds and have such proceeds credited to any rupee account or to an exporters' foreign currency account with the domestic banking un it of a bank in Sri Lanka or to retain export proceeds abroad in any commercial bank, provided monies in such accounts are not used for acquisition of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Special arrangements apply to exports carried out under trade and payments agreements and to exports to a member country of the ACU. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, hand icraft items of ebony, timber (logs or in plank form), vintage motor vehicles, and metal waste and scrap metals (e.g., copper, nickel, a lum inum, lead, tin, and zinc). Export quotas are maintained on textiles and apparel used to implement bilateral quotas under the MFA. The Textile Quota Board allocates quotas among exporters based primarily on their past export performance. Export taxes Taxes are levied on exports of coconut, rubber, and tea. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Indicative limits/bona fide tests are applied to all these transactions. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Remittances of premiums for general insurance are permitted, subject to the country's in- surance regulations. Remittances of premiums for reinsurance may be effected through authorized dealers without prior approval, subject to documentary requirements. Reasonable amounts of commissions are allowed for export orders secured through agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior approval if they relate to the year of application and do not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 907 inc lude und is tr ibu ted profits of earlier years or reserves of the company. However, relevant documen ta t ion is required to remit interim prof i ts or dividends, or f inal profits or dividends. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meeting expenses and paying taxes and levies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes and personal expenses and not for payments for imports of goods in commercial quantities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Funds retained abroad w i th COE permission and export proceeds permitted to be retained abroad may not be used for acquiring property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Except for the local purchase by nonresidents of shares or other securities of a participating na ture, all capital market securities and money market instruments are controlled. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Nonres iden ts may invest in shares of up to 100% of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies without prior approval, subject to certain exclusions and limita- t ions, in terms of the general permission granted. Funds must be channeled through a SIERA. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Investments under an employee share option scheme are permitted, subject to approval from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Non res iden ts may invest in Sri Lanka development bonds. Nonresident Sri Lankans may invest in any real or f inanc ial asset through special accounts (rupee accounts for nonresi- dent Sri Lankan investment). Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts These transac t ions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 908 SRI LANKA On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are not perm i t ted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These t ran sac t ions are not permitted. On c o l l e c t i ve i n v e s tm e nt s e cu r i t i es Purchase locally by nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are perm i t ted on ly in the case of u n it trusts in wh i ch not more than 20% of the depos i tory proper ty may be invested in government securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t r an s a c t ions are not pe rm i t ted. Purchase abroad by residents These t r an s a c t ions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Comme rc ial c red i ts There are con t ro ls on all transac t ions in der iva t ives and other instruments. Borrowers are requ i red to settle credit granted to f inance export orders w i th in a period of 90 or 120 days from the date of sh ipmen t. While the 120-day limit is u sua l ly granted, the dec i s ion to ex tend the l im it is l e ft to commercial banks. By residents to nonresidents Expo rt cred i ts are permitted, prov ided they are effected th rough a licensed bank. To residents from nonresidents Overseas supp l i e rs may ex tend credit to importers on ly if the interest rate is reasonable. F in an c i al credits By residents to nonresidents A ll l icensed banks may ex tend rupee cred it fac i l i t ies to nonres iden t-con tro l led companies that are incorporated in Sri Lanka. However, rupee credits extended to nonresident- con t ro l led companies that are approved under Section 17 of the BOI Act were subject to the p r u d e n t i al l im i ts that were assigned to each bank u n t il January 21, 2003, when they were removed. To residents from nonresidents Long- term loans r e q u i re p r ior approval upon rev iew of the terms and cond i t ions. Preference is g iven to loans that w i ll be repaid in fore ign exchange. Gua ran tee s, su re t ie s, and f i n a n c i al b a c k up f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents Banks may issue pe r fo rmance bonds and b id bonds w i t h o ut l im it on behalf of non res ident persons for expor ts and o ther service contracts, sub ject to the cond i t ions stipulated in the tender, quo t a t ion, or con t ract and, in the latter case, proof of the award of contract. Letters of gua ran tee v a lu ed at the equ iv a l ent of $500,000 or more requ i re prior CBSL approva l. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d i rect inve s tment Inw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e nt Inve s tmen ts abroad by res iden ts are permitted on ly w i th the permission of the MOF, de- p e n d i ng on the per iod of net re tu rn. P r io r i ty is g iven to inves tmen ts that promote domestic expor ts. Foreign inve s tment is permitted on the basis of the type of bus iness. E f fec t ive Apr il 19, 2002, the con t ro ls placed on non res ident inves tmen ts in the areas of bank ing, finance, in- su rance, s tockb rok ing, cons t ruc t ion of res iden t ial b u i l d i n gs and roads, supp ly of water, mass transpor ta t ion, te lecommun ica t ions, production and d is tr ibu t ion of power and energy, p ro f e s s ion al services, and se t t ing up of b ranche s / l ia i son o f f ices of companies incorporated overseas have been l ibe ra l ized subject to the ru l es of the re levant regulatory authorities. P r ev iou s ly, non r e s id ent inv e s tm ent in these sectors was sub ject to the fo l low ing l im i ts: b a n k i ng (60% of the e q u i ty cap i ta l ), in su r a n ce (90%), f i n a n c i al services sector (49%). In- vestment in other sectors was subject to permission and other requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 909 Exc luded areas of inve s tment for non re s iden ts i n c l u de the fo l low ing: money l end ing, pawnbrok ing, retail trading with capital of less than $1 m i l l ion or its equivalent, and coastal f i s h i n g. The res t r ic ted sectors, in w h i ch fo re ign inve s tment is restricted to 40%, inc lude the f o l l ow i n g: p rodu c t ion of goods for export u n d er in t e rn a t ion al quo ta res t r ic t ions; growing and p r im a ry process ing of cocoa, coconu ts, rice, rubbe r, spices, sugar, and tea; m i n i ng and primary processing of nonrenewable natural resources; t imber processing industries us ing local t imb e r; deep-sea f i sh ing; mass commun i c a t ion s; f r e igh t; t rave l; s h i p p i ng agencies; and edu c a t ion. Inve s tment is permitted o n ly up to the l im it approved by the government or the re levant au tho r i t i es in the f o l l ow i ng sectors: a ir t ranspo r ta t ion; coastal sh ipp ing; manu- fac ture of arms, ammun i t ion, explosives, m i l i t a ry vehicles and equipment, aircraft, and o ther m i l i t a ry ha rdwa re; m a n u f a c t u re of po isons, na rco t ics, a lcoho l ic beverages, dangerous drugs, and tox ic, hazardous, or ca rc inogen ic ma ter ia ls; large-scale m i n i ng of gems; and lotteries. E f fec t ive Augu st 8, 2002, p rov id ing p ro fess ional services other than for the export or tour ist sectors was removed from the list of excluded areas for nonresident investment in shares of domes t ic compan ies. Proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of approved investments, along with any associated capital app rec ia t ion, may be rem i t ted in f u l l. Expa tr ia tes leav ing Sri Lanka to take up resi- dence in the coun t ry of t h e ir permanent dom ic i le are pe rm i t ted to transfer all assets repre- senting the ir re t irement funds and savings. Foreign na t iona ls who have operated small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they o r ig ina l ly brought in to the coun t ry p l us a reasonab le amount of sav ings, sub ject to certain l im i t s. Au tho r i z ed dea lers may g rant fo re ign exchange a l lo c a t ions to em ig ran ts upon presen ta t ion of app rop r ia te documen ta t ion. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions All real estate t r an s a c t ions are con t ro l led. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowmen ts, inh e r i t an c e s, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of assets Rem i t tances of fo re ign cu r rency for l i fe in su r an ce p rem iums are not permitted. Transfer abroad by emigrants At the t ime of depa r tu re, em ig ran ts may be gran ted fo re ign exchange to pay for the cost of t ran spo r ta t ion to the coun t ry of m ig ra t ion v ia the no rma l, d irect route. A fo re ign exchange equ iva lent of up to $2,000 a person may also be purchased at the time of departure. Per- sonal effects of reasonable amounts p lus jewe lry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married fema le, SL Rs 60,000 for unma r r ied fema les, SL Rs 30,000 for fema le em igran ts under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for ma le em ig ran ts may be exported. Em ig ran ts are also permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 a person, up to a max imum l im it of SL Rs 1 m i l l i on a f am i ly u n i t. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize ea rn ings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Banks are requ ired to report the ir da i ly foreign exchange position. Reporting requirements w i th respect to f u nd t ran s fe rs th rough e lec t ron ic fund transfer cards are in effect. Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 SRI LANKA Lending to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Offshore bank branches may extend foreign currency loans to any nonresidents and also to companies. Domestic bank branches may extend loans in foreign currency to Sri Lankan expatriate workers who are employed abroad for the construction or purchase of residential houses in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from the ir domestic currency bank ing units to exporters who are in a position to pay their loans in foreign exchange earnings. Development banks are also permitted to extend foreign currency loans to exporters based on their foreign credit lines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The statutory reserve requirement ratio on rupee deposits is 10%, and the ratio on foreign currency deposits is zero. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In banks by nonresidents There is no limit on foreign ownership of domestically incorporated commercial banks. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Effec t ive March 1, 2002, the max imum positive da i ly net open foreign exchange position of commercial banks was increased to 15% from 10% of a bank 's own capital funds and reserves. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on secur i t ies issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on inves tment po r t fo l io held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio he ld locally Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exchange arrangement March 1. The period w i th in wh ich forward sales are permitted was extended to 360 days f rom 180 days. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts SRI LANKA 911 April 1. Because most of the administrative controls that were enacted after the float of the rupee in 2001 had been eliminated, the exchange arrangement of Sri Lanka was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate. February 13. The Sri Lankan authorities notified the IMF that Da Afghanistan Bank and any of its offices had been withdrawn from the list of individuals and entities whose assets were frozen in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. March 16. The max imum amount of domestic currency that Sri Lankan nationals are al- lowed to bring into or take out of Sri Lanka was increased to SL Rs 5,000 from S LRs 1,000. September 3. Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions 1267(1999), 1333(2000), and 1390(2002) a new consolidated list of ind iv idua ls and entities associated with terrorism was sent to banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to freeze all capital and assets belonging to such individuals and entities. November 22. Commercial banks and limited liability companies approved by the COE may import gold on a consignment account basis, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the COE. Prior to this date, it was restricted to commercial banks only. January 31. Payment of interest on accounts held by foreign passport holders resident in Sri Lanka was permitted. A sh ipp ing /a ir l ine agent may maintain a foreign currency account in the domestic unit of the banks on behalf of its foreign principal only for the purpose of collecting fre ight paid in foreign currency by exporters. Imports and import payments April 15. The temporary surcharge that applied to all products subject to duty (except cer- tain essential goods) was reduced from 40% to 20%. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment July 31. The national security levy of 6.5% was e l im ina ted. November 6. Tariff rates of 2% and 10% were applied to items that were previously free of duties. April 19. Investments by nonresidents in the fo l low ing sectors were fu l ly liberalized: bank- ing, finance, insurance, stockbroking, construction of residential bu i ld ings and roads, sup- ply of water, mass transportation, telecommunications, production and distribution of power and energy, professional services, and setting up of branches/liaison offices of com- panies incorporated overseas, subject to the rules of the relevant regulatory authorities. August 8. Prov id ing professional services other than for the export or tourism sectors was removed from the list of excluded areas for nonresident investment in shares of domestic companies. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions March 1. The maximum positive net open foreign exchange position of commercial banks was increased to 15% from 10% of a bank 's capital funds and reserves. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2003 January 21. The period for forward sales of foreign exchange by banks was extended to 720 days f rom 360 days in respect of repayment of foreign loans. January 4. The port or airport development levy applied to imports for processing and re- export was reduced to 0.50% from 0.75%. January 21. Pruden t ial l im i ts placed on rupee lend ing to fore ign-con tro l led companies were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese d ina r. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in hor izon tal bands From mid-1999, a de facto fixed system has been in operation as the authorities have been in te rven ing in the foreign exchange market to maintain the exchange rate at SD 258 per $1, transactions tak ing place w i t h in a band of ±1.5% around the central rate. Effective June 6, 2002, th is band was widened to ±2%, and interventions in the foreign exchange market have been l im i ted to avo id ing d isorder ly market conditions. On the basis of additional in- fo rma t ion, the exchange rate regime of Sudan was reclassified, effective January 1, 2002, to the category conven t ional pegged arrangement from the category managed floating with no p reannounced path for the exchange rate; on February 28, 2003, it was subsequently reclas- sified to the category pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands. Dutch foreign exchange auctions take place on a bi-weekly basis. The quantity of foreign exchange supplied by the Bank of Sudan (BOS) at these auctions is decided in advance by a committee chaired by the BOS governor; however, the quan t i ty is not preannounced and varies f rom auction to auction, tak ing in to account external and monetary developments. Bids are accepted w i th in the bandw id th, taking into consideration market trends over the preceding three days. The BOS calculates an indicative exchange rate based on the weighted average transac t ions between the BOS, bank and nonbank dealers, and individual foreign currency account ho lders du r ing the previous day. The buy ing rate of the BOS is set at the level of the ind ica t ive exchange rate, and the se l l ing exchange rate is de f ined as the buy ing rate p lus 1%. The m idpo int exchange rate is used for accounting purposes of gov- ernment transac t ions. There are no regular BOS interventions in the foreign exchange mar- ket ou t s ide the auc t ions. Short-term f lu c tu a t ions are smoothed out using open market opera- t ions in secur i t ies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments arrangements Inoperative Reg ional arrangements C lea r ing agreements Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all coun t r i es and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in fore ign currency f rom any free currency account or special foreign currency account, while receipts f rom the conve r t ib le area may be accepted in any conver t ib le currency. E f fec t ive May 28, 2002, nonbank dealers are allowed to transfer funds into and out of the country. There is an agreement w i th Egypt that has been suspended since 1992. Yes. Yes. No. 912 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 913 Internat ional security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports No. No. Yes. Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts He ld dome s t ica l ly A ll res iden ts, except the gove rnmen t, p u b l ic i n s t i t u t i o n s, and p u b l ic sector en terpr ises, a re allowed to keep fore ign exchange in free accoun ts. These accounts may be credited with any means of payment w i thout restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash de- posits. Funds f rom these accoun ts may be used to make paymen ts and transfers abroad or for any o ther purpose. He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n .a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval requ i red Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts D ip loma t ic, fo re ign, i n t e r n a t i o n a l, and reg ional m i s s ions and o rgan iza t ions; fore ign cha r i- ties and aid organ iza t ions; fore ign compan ies, fore ign contractors, and the foreign person- nel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts w i th authorized banks. These accoun ts may be credited w i th t rans fe rs f rom abroad. Special fore ign cur- rency accoun ts may be deb i ted for transfers abroad to f inance fo re ign travel, to purchase local cu r rency to f in an ce local payments, to make fo re ign cu r rency payments to local ins t i- tu t ions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to f inance imports. W i thd rawa ls may be made for purposes of t ravel by account ho lders or th e ir fam i l ies, and for local paymen ts in Sudanese d ina rs. Except for a i r l i ne compan ies, approval is requ i red to open these accounts. Accoun ts of a i r l i ne compan ies may be credited w i th paymen ts by the ir passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in fore ign currency. These accoun ts may be opened by the same i n d i v i d u a ls and organizations as those allowed to open fore ign exchange accounts. Balances may be converted, subject to approval on the basis of do cum en t a ry ev idence. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports E f fec t ive J u ne 1 1, 2002, the res tr ic t ions on import f in an c ing were abo l ished. Advance import deposits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 9 14 SUDAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Letters of credit Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a valid commercial registration cer- tificate, a valid tax clearance certificate, and the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of imports. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required only for imports under bilateral and preferential trade arrangements and under barter trade. Negative list Imports of some goods, such as w ine, drugs, gamb l ing instruments, and weapons, are pro- h ib i ted for reasons of re l ig ion, health, and na t ional security. Other non ta r i ff measures Imports from Israel are proh ib i ted. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import du ty rates range f rom 6% to 40%, and there are three tar iff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of the date of the b i ll of lading, depending on the types of settlements. n.a. Yes. Licenses are required for exports under barter trade. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Insurance for imports must normally be taken out w i th local companies. Amortization payments on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regarding the original amount of the foreign loans. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 915 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 SUDAN Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowments, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The reserve requ irement on foreign and domestic currency deposits is 14%. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2002 January 1. The exchange rate regime of Sudan was reclassified to the category conven- t ion al pegged arrangement f rom the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate. June 6. The exchange rate band around the central rate was widened to ±2% from ±1.5%, and BOS in te rven t ions in the fore ign exchange market were l im i ted to avoiding disorderly market conditions. May 28. Nonbank dealers were a l lowed to t rans fer funds into and out of the country. Imports and import payments June I I. The res t r ic t ions on import f in an c ing were abolished. Exchange arrangement February 28. The exchange rate regime of Sudan was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate w i t h in horizontal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: June 29, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Su r iname is the Sur iname gu i ld e r. Three gold co ins are legal tender. In addition to the o f f ic ial exchange rate, a special exchange rate of Sf 1,100 per US$1 ap- p l ies to imports of m i lk and in fant formu la. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. do l lar at Sf 2,200 per US$1. The market- determined exchange rate (set by commercial banks and cambios) varies around the o f f ic ial exchange rate w i th in ±3%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements in Suriname gu i lde rs between Sur iname and foreign countries are not permit- ted; in general, they must be made in specified convertible currencies (Australian dollars, Barbados Collars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, euros, Guyana dollars, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars). Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Suriname is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) grants export and import licenses. However, two specified m i n i ng companies do not need licenses for the ir own import requirements. The Foreign Exchange Commission (FEC) grants licenses for most external payments other than imports of goods, approves foreign loans, and authorizes banks to deal in foreign exchange. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade These arrears are owed largely to Brazil and the Un i ted States. Some claims have been made by the Paris Club for arrears to Germany, Italy, and Japan, but these arrears have not been confirmed by the Sur inamese au thor i t ies. Producers of gold may sell on ly to authorized gold buye rs — the Central Bank of Suriname (CBS) and Grassalco. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the CBS. Au tho r ized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at f ree ly agreed upon prices for indu s t r i al and artistic purposes. Dea l ings between residents in gold bars and other 917 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 918 SURINAME forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet industrial demand, the CBS may import some gold. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate the sale of gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ ire exchange licenses is- sued by the FEC. Licenses are not normally granted, except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, how- ever, may bring in gold freely, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the CBS within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also bring in gold freely, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free, and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Persons exporting more than the equivalent of $10,000 must submit a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to the equivalent of $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the country up to the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in these accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in U.S. dollars with domes- tic banks with the prior permission of the FEC; no overdrafts are permitted. These accounts may not be credited with Suriname guilders. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents other than banks may open accounts in Suriname guilders free ly with domes- tic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 9 19 accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the government or under com- pany plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in gu i lders may not be credited w i th Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad. Blocked accounts n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are requ ired, and importers must be registered w i th the national chamber of commerce. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of the fo l low ing are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the presi- dent of Suriname: w i ld animals and plants that are not ind igenous to Suriname; pesticides (based on the Fund for Special Operations list of the Inter-American Development Bank); used cars and motorcycles older than five years and buses older than eight years; all chemi- cal and radioactive waste materials; and chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons. Im- ports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of pub l ic policy or hea l th. Yes. Goods subject to quotas inc lude indus t r ial explosives, weapons, fireworks, psychotropic materials not used for medicinal purposes, mercury, pesticides, herbicides, radioactive ma- terials, pets and other domestic animals, nonag r icu l tu ral plants, used tires, equipment that uses or contains pentachlorphenol or parachlorotoluene gas, and products made from gold or other precious metals that are def ined under the Foreign Currency Regu la t ion of 1947. Imports of certain types of goods requ ire permission from specific m in is tr ies operating under specific acts of parliament, i.e., the Ministries of Industry and Trade, Agriculture, and Forestry and Na tu ral Resources. Importers must obtain certificates of importation issued by the relevant m in is try for imports of animals and birds or their eggs; brood eggs; animal parts and products; psychotropic products for human med ic inal purposes; medicines for humans and animals; microorganisms for research; waste products; and refrigerators, air conditioners, and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all im- ports. A statistical fee of 2% is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports of baux i te companies, and 0.5% of the c.i.f. value of other imports. Suriname applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET; as a result, the max imum external ta r i ff rate is 20%. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to maintain cur- rent accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). Surrender requ i remen ts State-owned b aux i te and pe tro leum companies are subject to export surrender requirements. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements To ve r i fy prices, the MTI ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the ex- port price, as reported by the exporter, is in accordance w i th world market prices. Letters of credit Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 920 Export licenses Export taxes SURINAME Exports requ ire licenses issued by the MTI or the Ministry of Agriculture. Licenses are issued by these offices for exports of the following: round timber; peeled wood; letterwood; explosives; narco t ics; med ic inal plants and herbs; and products made from gold or other prec ious metals not def ined under the Foreign Currency Regulation of 1947. Export li- censes for w i ld animals and plants are granted on ly by the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of bamboo is prohibited. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 10% of the f.o.b. va lue. Exports of baux i te are subject to a statistical fee of 2% of the ir f.o.b. value, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of their f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Inves tmen t-re la ted paymen ts Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits License applications must be supported by an aud i tor's report and presented to the FEC for ve r i f ica t ion. Transfers of prof i ts from investments made after Ju ly 31, 1953, are permitted. License app l ica t ions must be supported by an aud i tor's report and presented to the FEC for ve r i f ica t ion. Prof i ts must be transferred w i th in three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the f i rm 's work ing capital and may be transferred only in annual ins ta l lmen ts of 20%. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. Informa t ion is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depre- c ia t ion of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Information is not available for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and family maintenance. Yes. Yes. The amount that a repa tr ia t ing fam i ly may take out is determined on a case-by-case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Quantitative limits Authorized banks and the General Post Office have au thor i ty to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a month for payment of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and pa tent rights, etc.) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Foreign exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 921 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Transactions i n v o l v i ng outward remittances of foreign exchange for capital account trans- actions are subject to FEC approval. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one mon th before the in tended date for effec t ing such a transaction. Controls on capital and money market instruments Subject to certain requ iremen ts, res iden ts may purchase or sell in specified countries Suri- namese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requ i res the prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the accoun ts of the ir customers. Banks are requ ired to surrender to the CBS any excess foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in the ir nonres ident U.S. do l lar accounts. All investments by residents requ ire FEC permission. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, additional transfers are permitted annua l ly in equal amounts over a period of up to 10 years. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Transfers of the foreign exchange ( inc lud ing loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use are permitted at any time. Also permitted are transfers of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of f u l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprises established by nonresidents with foreign capital after J u ly 31, 1953. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad without FEC permission. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad The FEC may a l low emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer foreign exchange in a lump sum or in regular annual rem i t tances represen t ing the proceeds from the sale of assets held in Sur iname. The amoun ts of these transfers are determined on a case-by-case basis. Au tho r ized banks are permitted to place part of the ir l iqu id funds abroad and to use the short-term credit l in es extended by the ir fore ign correspondent banks as a source of operat- ing fund s. The CBS guarantees the LCs issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified c e i l ing, wh i le the au thor ized banks keep the ir balances abroad at a m i n im um level. This arrangement applies to the state-controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hak r inbank, but not to the Dutch-owned A lgemene Bank Neder- land. Au thor ized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts cor- respond ing to balances in th e ir non res ident U.S. do l lar accounts. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The CBS does not allow banks to keep open positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 922 SURINAME Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Swaziland is the Swaziland l i langen i. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The l i langeni is pegged to the South A f r ican rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The for- ward exchange rates are market de term ined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Yes. Controls on the use of domestic currency These transac t ions may be effected th rough nonres ident accounts only, and in terna t ional transfers to outside the CM A are subject to a limit of E 5,000 a transaction. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations CBS approval is requ i red. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements These transac t ions must be effec ted th rough fore ign currency accounts. Swaziland is part of the CM A; no restrictions are applied to payments w i th in the CMA, and, in pr inc ip le, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance w i th the terms and conditions applied in that market. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter agreements r equ i re CBS approval. Adm in istrat ion of control The CBS, on beha lf of the MOF, controls all external currency transactions. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally s im i lar to those of South A f r i c a. 923 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 924 SWAZILAND International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Exports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Exports of the app l icab le travel entitlement are allowed. Domestic currency Imports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted A u t h o r i ty to open fore ign currency accounts is delegated to authorized dealers. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency I n d i v i d u a ls may ho ld foreign currency deposits of up to the equ iva lent of E 750,000 with domestic au thor ized dealers. These accounts may also be opened to deposit foreign ex- change proceeds for a period not exceeding 90 days. Ind iv idu a ls may ho ld foreign currency deposits abroad up to the equ iva lent of E 750,000. Companies must obtain approval and may hold only the needed working balances. The au tho r i ty to approve foreign investments by ind iv idua ls is delegated to authorized dealers. Pr ior CBS approval is required to open these accounts. Convers ion from these accounts is subject to exchange control approval. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accoun ts are pe rm i t ted, and au tho r i ty to open them is delegated to authorized dealers. Yes. Yes. Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted equ i ty securities in Swaziland and in other investments subject to CBS approval. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. F inanc ing requirements for imports M i n im um f i n a n c i ng r e q u i r em e n ts Yes. Advance payment requ iremen ts Advance payments are limited to 33.33% of the ex-factory cost of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 925 Advance import deposits P r ior CBS approval is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is carried out by the Department of Customs and Excise. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Permits are requ i red to import goods on the negative l is t, and these permits en t i t le the hold- ers to purchase fore ign exchange required to make import payments. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import permits are requ ired for goods on the negative list. Swaziland is a member of the SACU, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods o r ig ina t ing in any country of the customs un ion. Imports from South A f r ica do not requ ire licenses. Imports from countries outside the SACU require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi au thor i t ies are responsible for controlling import licenses and payments procedures. Import taxes and/or tariffs Swaziland applies the customs ta r i ff system of the SACU on imports f rom outside the cus- toms un ion. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements For goods shipped to coun tr ies outside the SACU, l icens ing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and w i th in the stipulated period. Declaration is required w i t h in 30 days from the date of accrual. No. Documentation requirements Contract statements are required. Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. All exports are subject to licensing. For goods shipped to SACU member countries, li- censes are used ma in ly for tax purposes. Quotas apply to exports of beef and sugar. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments to nonres iden ts for current transactions, wh i le subject to control, are not normally restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized dealers. Trade-related payments Documentary evidence confirming the amount due must be provided. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Investment-related payments Au thor i ty to transfer dividends, profits, and other income is delegated to authorized dealers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documen tary ev idence con f i rm ing the amount due must be provided. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 Payments for travel Quantitative limits SWAZILAND The limits on foreign exchange purchases by permanent residents for business and holiday travel are the equ iva lent of E 140,000 an adu lt a year and E 45,000 a child under 12 years a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of need. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Clearance from the CBS is required for any agreements or amendments w i th respect to technical consulting, management, professional, and royalty fees. The maximum study allowances for students in non-CMA countries are E 140,000 a year for single students and E 280,000 a year for married students accompanied by their spouse. The maximum travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA coun tr ies du r ing vaca- tion periods are E 45,000 a year for single students and E 90,000 a year for married stu- dents accompanied by the ir spouse. Family maintenance transfers are l im i ted to E 7,000 a month. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence must be provided. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence subs tan t ia t ing the income earned must be produced. Credit card use abroad Prior approval To use credit cards outside the CM A, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of in tent before departure. Quantitative limits Residents may use up to 100% of the approved travel facility. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Capital Transactions All inward capital transfers, except for equity investments by nonresidents, require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented to fac i l i ta te the subsequent repatria- tion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. Inward payments toward a loan and investments in unquoted companies may be made freely, but CBS approval is required for registration of equity status prior to investment. Purchases may be processed through normal bank ing channels either directly in foreign currency or through local currency nonresident accounts held in a CMA member country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 927 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Balances in blocked accounts for emigrants may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Other nonresidents may effect these transactions freely as well. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no specific controls; however, the underlying documentation must specify that a nonresident is effecting the transaction in order to distinguish nonresidents' certificates from those of residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are restricted to private persons' investment entitlements. The limit on purchases by a resident noncorporate individual is up to the equivalent of E 750,000. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents All transactions in derivatives and other investments are controlled. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations All credit operations are controlled. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is subject to CBS approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. These transactions are allowed, provided they relate to successful tenders for the supply of goods and technical services. These transactions are allowed, provided the bank is satisfied that payment from a foreign guarantor will be received in accordance with the exchange control rulings, should it be required to effect a payment under the guarantee. Private ind iv idua ls are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000. Applica- tions by corporate entities abroad require approval, which is granted on merit. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 928 SWAZILAND Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by res iden ts Pu rchase l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts These transac t ions are subject to the prior approval of the CBS. Private ind iv idua ls may invest in real estate w i t h in the SADC region w i th pr ior CBS approval. Purchases by non res iden ts are subject to approval. App l ican ts must go th rough the Land Speculation Board to determine if there is effective local demand. Sale loca l ly by non re s iden ts These transac t ions requ i re pr ior CBS approval. Controls on personal capital transactions All personal capital transfers are controlled. Private ind iv idua ls are allowed to invest abroad up to the equ iva lent of E 750,000. Loans These transac t ions requ i re pr ior CBS approval. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inh e r i t an c e s, and legacies By residents to nonresidents An annu al l im it of E 25,000 applies to g i ft transfers. Documentary proof is required for legacies and d is tr ibu t ions of estates. To residents from nonresidents Documen tary evidence for these transactions must be provided. Settlement of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Controls apply to funds drawn from blocked accounts. Transfer abroad by emigrants The se t t l ing - in a l lowance for emigrants is E 200,000 a single person or E 400,000 a family. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Transfers of casino, gambling, and lottery w inn ings by nonresidents may be effected through authorized dealers upon presentation of documentary evidence. Residents are not allowed to participate in lotteries organized abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad w i thout prior approval. L e n d i ng to non re s iden ts ( f in an c i al or commerc ial credits) L end ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange D i f f e r e n t i al trea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accoun ts held by non res iden ts Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regu la t ions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. E f fec t ive August 3, 2002, the ratio is 3% (prev ious ly, 4%) of a bank's total domestic pub l ic l iab i l i t ies exc lud ing any balances for which the bank is liable to any financial institution, of wh ich 25% (prev ious ly, 100%) m a y be cash- in-vau l t. The ratio is 10% and 15% of total public liabilities for the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank and commercial banks, respectively. In banks by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 929 Open foreign exchange position l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents L im i ts (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Institutional investors are allowed to invest abroad 15% of their assets in Swaziland by way of asset swaps after obtaining CBS approval. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions August 3. The reserve ra t io of a bank 's total domestic pub l ic liabilities, exc lud ing any bal- ances for which the bank is l iab le to any f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion, was reduced to 3% from 4%, of wh ich 25% (prev ious ly, 100%) may be cash- in-vau l t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently f loa t ing The exchange rate of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Sveriges R iksbank — the central bank —and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On September 27, 2002, the Swedish au thor i t ies no t if ied the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze the accounts of listed terrorist groups. These measures have been taken in accordance with UN Security Counc il resolutions and the relevant EC regulations. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- ta in res tr ic t ions are ma in ta ined on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- t ional transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain ind iv idua ls associated w i th the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe (from February 18, 2002). In accordance w i th EU Regulation 147/2003, effec t ive January 27, 2003, financ- ing of and f inanc ial assistance related to m i l i ta ry activities in Somalia are proh ib i ted. On December 20, 2002, restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Re- strictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and ind iv idu a ls and organiza- t ions associated w i th terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 930 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts SWEDEN 931 Yes. Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish Na- tional Tax Board for tax control. Prior to January 1, 2003, these were to be reported to the Riksbank for statistical purposes as well. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. These accounts may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries are subject to licensing for surveil- lance purposes. Imports of most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU are subject to licensing for surveillance purposes (prior to January 18, 2002, this applied only to imports of most iron and steel products from the Czech Republic, Kazakhstan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine). Between January 18 and July 31, 2002, imports from Turkey, EFTA mem- bers, and countries that are part of the EEA were excluded from these requirements. Shoes from Vietnam and certain goods from China, such as bicycles, brushes, fireworks, gloves, and toys, are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. The importation of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries is subject to quotas. Agri- cultural and fishery products are also subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel prod- ucts from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine are also subject to quotas, as are imports of porcelain and shoes from China. Imports from Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. Import restrictions apply to certain categories of food, as well as to narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive materi- als, and other items. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 932 SWEDEN Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions, with a few exceptions. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Controls apply on ly to shares and other securities of a participatory na tu re that may be af- fected by laws on inward direct investment in f ish ing and c iv il av ia t ion. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inve s tment Yes. No. No. Laws on inward inves tment and es tab l ishment app ly to inves tment in f i sh ing, c iv il aviation, and transport and communications. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by non r e s id en ts A pe rm it may be requ i red. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Open fore ign exchange po s i t ion l i m i ts No. Yes. For p rud en t i al reasons, general gu ide l ines ex ist for credit in s t i tu t ion s' and securities f irms' net pos i t ions in fore ign currencies. These gu ide l ines s t ipu la te l im i ts both on positions in a single currency —15% of the capital base—and on the total net position of all currencies— 30% of the capital base. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 933 On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The same prov is ions apply as for open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2002 February 18. Certain financial transactions with Zimbabwe were prohibited. September 27. The Swedish authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze accounts of listed terrorists, pursuant to the re levant EC regu la t ions and UN Security Counc il resolutions. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. January 18. Licensing for surveillance purposes of imports of most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than Turkey, EFTA members, and countries that are party to the EEA, was introduced. August 1. Licensing for surveillance purposes of most imports of iron and steel products from Turkey, EFTA members, and countries that are party to the EEA was reintroduced. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and f inanc ial assistance related to m i l i ta ry activities in Somalia were prohibited. Resident accounts January 1. The reporting of amounts in foreign exchange accounts held abroad to the Riks- bank was no longer required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. No. No. No o f f i c i a l ly fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Exchange restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Zimbabwe (from March 19, 2002), Iraq, specific individuals associ- ated with the government of Myanmar, specific individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and the Taliban and specific individuals associated therewith. On January 29, 2002, the provisions regarding restrictions against the Taliban and specific ind iv idua ls associated therewith were amended. Restrictions with re- gard to the UNITA movement in Angola were l i f ted on December 19, 2002. In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange restrictions are imposed in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, wh ich are issued freely, are requ ired for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Licenses are not required for imports or exports of gold coins or bu l l ion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 934 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Resident Accounts 935 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Licenses are required mostly for ag r icu l tu ral products. Licenses with quotas are required for specific agricultural products. Import controls apply for weapons and some defense-sensitive products, in accordance with UN restrictions, and for sanitary or phytosanitary reasons. In general, customs duties are levied based on the weight of goods instead of their value. On indus tr ial goods, import ta r i f fs are generally very low. On agricultural goods that are also produced in Switzerland, they are h igh, averaging about 34%; the rates on goods that are not subject to ta r i ff quo tas range up to 678%. In the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tar iffs and Trade-Uruguay Round, all quan t i ta t ive restrictions and measures hav- ing equ iva lent effects concerning agricultural products have been transformed into tar iffs. In order to maintain market access opportunities prevailing in 1986-88, 28 tariff rate quotas were created for specific agricultural and livestock goods (fruits, vegetables, meats, wines, etc.). State monopolies apply to imports of alcohol, of 80 proof and above, and salt, although pr iva te sector imports may be effected w i th p r ior authorization. Some cantons have a mo- nopo ly on imports of salt. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 936 SWITZERLAND F inan c ing requ irements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas A system of general and i n d i v i d u al l icenses app l ies to controlled exports. Exports of weapons, dua l -use goods for the production of conventional weapons, and weapons of mass de s t ruc t ion are con t ro l led (approval is requ ired). Exports are prohibited in accordance w i th UN re s t r ic t ion s. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap i tal transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal ma rket s e c u r i t i es Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on d irect inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Pu rcha se l o c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t i on al investors No. No. Yes. No. Capital Transactions Fo re ign and domes t ic bond issues denom ina ted in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB and may be lead-managed on ly by a bank or a securities dealer domiciled in either Switzerland or Liechtenstein. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and for- eign securities are unrestricted. In case of major disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may in t roduce a permit requ i rement for certain outward capital trans- fers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Pu rcha ses by n o n r e s i d e n ts r e q u i re app roval by the can ton in w h i ch the property is situated. The app roval of the can ton is subject to supe rv i s ion and appeal by the federal government. No. No. The o v e r a ll l i m it on i n v e s tm e n ts in fo re ign cu r renc ies by l i fe and non - l i fe in su rance com- pan ies is 30%, w i th l im i ts for fo re ign equ i t ie s, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5%, re spec t ive ly, of the total po r t fo l io. These p rov i s ions also app ly to pension funds, but they are not b i n d i ng w i th respect to pens ion f u n ds that have p ruden t ial por tfo l io management practices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 937 Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Yes. The m in imum l im it on portfolio investment locally is 70%. Currency-matching regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition Foreign currency l iab i l i t ies of insurance companies must be covered at least 80% w i th as- sets in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 29. The restrictions on payments and transfers w i th respect to the Taliban and specific individuals associated therewith were amended. March 19. Restrictions were imposed on payments and transfers with respect to Zimbabwe. December 19. The restrictions on payments and transfers with respect to the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The exchange rate system consists of the fo l low ing: (1) the legally designated off ic ial rate of LS 11 .20/11 .25 per $1 that applies to the repayment of loans and interest arising from bilateral payments agreements; (2) the budget accounting rate of LS 46.45/46.50 per $1 (also known as the government fee rate) that applies to public sector exports of petro- leum, all government imports ( inc lud ing essential subsidized products and invisibles), and repayment of loans and interest payments not related to bilateral payments agreements; (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" (the commercial rate) of LS 46.00/46.50 per $1 that applies ma in ly to public commercial transactions, including (i) remittances abroad and payments by the public sector that are approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange; (ii) all pub l ic sector enterprise foreign exchange transactions; and (iii) domestic expenses of foreign oil companies; and (4) the "exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommer- cial transactions" (the noncommercial rate)—an off ic ial exchange rate that is set to reflect developments in the free market exchange rates in Beirut, Lebanon, and Amman, Jordan. Between October 3, 2002, and March 21, 2003, this last rate was used for foreign exchange sales by the Commercial Bank of Syria (ComBS) for limited noncommercial transactions (e.g., medical, student, religious, and travel expenses); for the required 10% surrender of nonagricultural export receipts to the ComBS (effective March 23, 2003, all noncommer- cial transactions take place at the noncommercial rate); and, effective October 13, 2002, for the provision of foreign exchange facilities to importers of raw materials needed for exports and for earnings of staff of UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. The unoff ic ial rates consist of (1) the "free market rate" and (2) the "export proceeds rate." The "free market rate" is the rate in the other countries in the region (ma in ly Amman and Beirut) and in Syria that applies to (i) private sector import payments (except for goods specified in the "exports proceeds" list) that are financed from private unrecorded exports; (ii) private sector remittances and services receipts/payments; and (iii) private capital flows. The "free market rate" is determined by private supply and demand, with the market par- ticipants matching the ir needs through brokers or dealers in the offshore market. The "ex- port proceeds rate" applies to goods that may be imported only w i th foreign exchange earned through exports. After surrendering 10% of their export proceeds to the ComBS, exporters may use their retained export earnings to import goods to be used for their pro- duc t ion or sell on this market to importers of a specific list of imports. The "export pro- ceeds rate" is determined by supp ly and demand conditions, and tends to have a premium above the free market rate. There are no dealers or brokers in this market, with market par- ticipants —namely importers and exporters —buying from and selling to each other. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The o f f ic ial rate is pegged to the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The Exchange Office (EO) prescribes the currencies that may be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. 938 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 939 Prescr ip t ion of currency requirements is not applied to ou tgo ing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are proh ib i ted. W i th few exceptions, non-Syrians v is i t ing the Syrian Arab Repub l ic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. Trading in fore ign currencies for uno f f ic ial purposes is prohibited. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative There are agreements w i th Russ ia and Sri Lanka. Administration of control The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade (MOEFT) determines policy with regard to imports and exports and issues import licenses. The EO issues exchange licenses for invis- ibles and capital transactions. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are subject to import l icens ing. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents trave l ing abroad may take w i th them up to LS 2,000 a trip unless they are travel- ing to Jordan or Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a for- eign exchange allowance may take w i th them up to LS 7,500 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 into foreign exchange, provided that the banknotes are less than the amounts ini- tially exchanged through the ComBS dur ing a period not exceeding two months before the date of departure. Residents t rave l ing abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $3,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Resident Accounts Effective May 22, 2002, residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at the ComBS w i th funds or ig ina t ing from abroad. Deposits may be transferred to other resident accounts. Deposits in the form of banknotes may on ly be withdrawn in that form, unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, or other simi- lar noncommercial purposes. Deposits for a term of 15 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if the resident has economic ac t iv i t ies abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 940 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts E f f e c t i ve May 22, 2002, non re s iden ts are permitted to open accounts in conver t ib le foreign cu r renc ies at the ComBS for the deposit of f u n ds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad w i thout restriction, or used to pay for author- ized impor ts. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents t empo r a r i ly r e s id ing in the Syrian Arab R e p u b l i c. These accoun ts may not be used, how- ever, for f u n ds rece ived in se t t lement cu r renc ies th rough payment conven t ions. These accoun ts may be credited w i th the proceeds in foreign currencies sold to the author- ized banks and w i th other rece ip ts in fore ign currenc ies; they may be debited to pay for expenses in the Syrian Arab R epub l i c. Blocked accounts Yes. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requ irements for imports Adv an ce impo rt depos i ts Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l i st N eg a t ive l i st O ther n o n t a r i ff measu res Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Imports and Import Payments The fo re ign exchange r equ i r em en ts of the state t rad ing agencies are met f rom the annual fo re ign exchange budge t; these agencies au toma t ica l ly receive import licenses upon sub- m i s s ion of documen ta t ion of the ir import requ iremen ts. When fo re ign exchange is not made ava i lab le, private imports must be f inanced with the impo r te r s' own resources th rough ex ternal credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits m a in t a in ed in the Syrian Arab R epub l ic by nonres iden ts, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the ComBS at the free ma rket rate. Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of f inanc ing. A num- ber of impo r ts may o n ly be imported u s ing fore ign exchange generated through exports. A non - in te rest bea r ing advance deposit is requ i red for p u b l ic sector imports in an amount equal to 100% of the v a lue of the imports. Private sector imports are not subject to this requ i rement if they are f in an c ed from abroad. If the ComBS requires an LC, an import deposit is requ i red in the amount of 100% (10% in the case of indus tr ia l is ts importing raw materials) of the value of the import p lus a 3% fee. Pr iva te importers may choose to import products specified on the permitted list by opening LCs at the ComBS. All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 1,000 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, wh ich are provided on proof of foreign exchange availability. A fee ranging from LS 104 to LS 454 is charged on issuance of an import license. Imports are regulated th rough three lists: (1) the "restricted list" for products whose im- ports rema in a monopo l} of the p u b l ic sector; (2) the "negative list" comprising imports that are p r o h i b i t ed for secu r i ty, h e a l t h, or r e l ig ious reasons or proh ib i ted for the protection of domes t ic i n d u s t r i e s; and (3) the "permitted list" w i th goods whose imports by the private sector are permitted, subject to the restrictions on their f inanc ing. Imports must come di- rec t ly f rom the c o u n t ry of o r ig in, but the MOEFT has the au tho r i ty to permit certain goods to be impo r ted from coun t r ies o ther than the coun t ry of or ig in. There is a gene ral l i st of goods that may not be imported f rom non-Arab coun t r ies. A sepa- rate l i st of p roh ib i t ed impor ts from member coun t r ies of the Arab Free Trade Area inc ludes o n ly goods p roh ib i t ed for h e a l th, safety, re l ig iou s, or env i ronmen tal reasons. Impo r ts f rom the Syrian free zones are allowed for cer ta in indu s t r ial goods and for goods impo r ted d i r e c t ly f rom the coun t ry of o r ig in. Imports of commodities or ig ina t ing in Israel are p roh ib i ted. An impo rt su r ch a rge of 2% is app l ied to all imports; government imports and imports of ce r ta in essen t ial i tems are exemp ted. E f fec t ive September 28, 2002, imports for customs d u ty purposes are va lued at LS 46.50 per $1; prev ious ly, there were three rates—LS 11.25, LS 23.00, and LS 46.50 per $1 —according to the categories of goods, wh i le import tariffs ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution State import monopoly SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 941 range up to 200%. All prev ious special lev ies on imports have been replaced by a un i f i ed import surcharge rang ing f rom 6% to 35%. Syrian na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad are allowed import exemp t ions on l u x u ry items va lued between the equ iv a l ent of $500 and $7,000. Many basic commod i t ies (such as paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain a g r i c u l t u r al mach ine ry) are impor ted on ly by state t r ad ing agencies or, for the ir own ac- coun t, by cer ta in p r iv a te sector impor ters. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts Expor ters are requ i red to repa tr ia te and su r render expo rt proceeds f rom exports to all des t i- na t ions w i t h in one year (p r ior to May 22, 2002, s ix mon ths for expor ts to Arab coun t r ies and n ine mon ths for exports to o ther coun t r i e s) of the date of export sh ipmen t. P r iva te sec- tor exporters of manu fac tu red goods are requ ired to surrender 10% (prior to September 4, 2002, 25%) of the ir export proceeds to the ComBS at the noncommercial rate and may retain the remainder to f inance permitted imports. Pub l ic sector enterprises may retain 100% of the ir export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts. Private sector exporters of f ru i ts and vegetables may retain 100% of the proceeds. Financing requirements The ComBS may accept p repaymen ts for exports of Syrian produc ts. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Expor ts of whea t, ba r ley, co t ton, co t ton yarn, and t h e ir de r iva t ives are made by the gov- e rnment o rg an i z a t ions d e a l i ng in cerea ls and co t ton. Pe t ro leum p roduct expor ts are hand led by the state Pe t ro leum M a rk e t ing Off ice. Expor ts of cer ta in other commod i t ies are also reserved for government agencies, state t rad ing agencies, and specified companies. Expo r ts of a few goods to all coun t r i es and all exports to Israel are p roh ib i t ed. Yes. P r ior to J u ly 3, 2002, when th is was e l im in a t ed, p roduc ts of a g r i c u l t u r al o r ig in were subject to the ag r icu l tu ral p roduc t ion tax of 12.5% ad valorem. The processed products that qua l i- fied for tax re imbu rsement inc luded dr ied, frozen, and processed f ru i ts and vegetables; cotton, cotton seeds, g inned cotton, cotton yarn, cotton wool, cotton c lo th ing, and cotton- seed o i l; o l ive o i l; and tex t i les. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related paymen ts Prior approval Inves tmen t - re la ted paymen ts Prior approval Payments for travel Most payments for p u b l ic sector i n v i s i b l es are effected at the budget accoun t ing rate, w h i le most paymen ts for p r iva te sector inv i s ib l es are effected at the noncomme rc ial rate. Yes. R em i t t an c es of p r o f it and d i v i d e n ds mu st be au tho r ized by the EO upon proof of payment of income tax. P ro f i ts f rom pro jec ts approved by the H igher Comm i t tee for Inves tment u n d er the inve s tment law may be repa tr ia ted f ree ly. In fo rm a t ion is not ava i lab le on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Residents t rave l ing abroad for p i lg r image may take w i th them foreign exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of $3,000 ( e f f e c t ive M a r ch 10, 2002, at the non comm e r c i al rate) and LS 2,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits a tr ip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 7,500 a trip in Syrian banknotes. On departure, residents of Syrian na t iona l i ty must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to th is tax. Yes. Effec t ive March 10, 2002, up to the equ iva lent of $20,000 (at the noncommercial rate) may be transferred abroad for medical treatment, w i th au thor iza t ion from the M in is t ry of Hea l th, or for studies abroad, with authorization from the Ministry of Higher Education. Yes. Yes. Up to 60% of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syr- ian Arab Repub l ic and 50% of the salaries of personnel of foreign d ip loma t ic and interna- tional missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected w i th foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Effec t ive May 22, 2002, the ComBS was allowed to transfer pension income in foreign currency to Syrians l iv ing abroad at the noncommercial exchange rate. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from a few transactions by the pub l ic sector and those from transactions by the private sector are sold at the noncommercial rate. Likewise, Syrian government employees who are on leave and work ing abroad are requ ired to repatriate and convert a m i n im um of 25% of each year's earnings received at the commercial rate. All Syrian employees work- ing abroad are also subject to an annual tax of the equ iva lent of $50-$700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on l u x u ry items (valued between the equ iva lent of $500 and $7,000) if the equ iva lent funds are surrendered at the budget accoun t ing rate. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Exports of capital requ i re the approval of the EO. There is no market in medium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to supplement the ir capital base. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The on ly instruments available in the Syrian Arab Republic are investment bonds issued by the Popu lar Credit Bank (PCB) as agent of the government. The bonds, which carry an interest rate of 9% a year, have 10-year maturity but have a short-term effec t ive ho ld ing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 943 period as they are redeemable after three to six months. They may be purchased only by nonbank Syrian residents and by the PCB itself. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities These instruments do not exist in the Syrian Arab Republic. Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Syrian Arab Republic provides special fac i l i t ies for the investment of funds of immi- grants and of nationals of Arab states, inc lud ing a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Projects w i th m in imum fixed assets of LS 10 m i l l ion approved by the government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including exemption from customs duties on imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed companies with at least 25% public participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years and private companies are ex- empted for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75% of proceeds from exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guarantee agreements with France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Companies licensed under the in- vestment law are allowed to exchange into local currency at the rate in neighboring coun- tries a part of their assets, du ly deposited at Syrian banks, to cover basic needs and local liabilities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents and foreign na t iona ls may acquire real estate on ly after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equ iva lent of the price of the property at the authorized local bank. Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds are required to be held in a blocked account and repatriated gradually. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 944 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regu la t ions Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Yes. Yes. Foreign banks are allowed to operate in free economic zones. Branches of foreign banks in free zones must have a m in imum capitalization of the equivalent of $10 million in foreign exchange and their services may be available only to companies set up in the free zone. They may be established in the form of private Societe Anonyme (S.A.) joint-stock compa- nies or in the form of Syrian mixed S.A. joint-stock companies in which the shares held by the banking pub l ic sector and other savings institutions do not exceed 25% of their capital, and whose capital is not less than LS 1.5 million. In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Changes During 2002 October 3. A few private, noncommercial transactions were allowed to be made at the non- commercial rate. October 13. The noncommercial rate could be used for the provision of foreign exchange facilities to importers of raw materials needed for exports and for the conversion of earn- ings of staff of the UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. May 22. Residents were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts at the ComBS with funds originating from abroad. May 22. Nonresidents could open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the ComBS for the deposit of funds from abroad. September 28. The exchange rates for customs duty purposes were un i f ied at LS46.50 per $1. Previously, there were three rates —LSI 1.25, LS 23.00, and LS46.50 per $1 —according to the categories of goods. May 22. The period of time within which exporters are required to repatriate and surrender export proceeds from all exports to all destinations was lengthened to one year. Previously, the periods were six months for exports to Arab countries and nine months for exports to other countries, respectively. July 3. The 12.5% agricultural production tax that was applied to exports of agricultural products was eliminated. September 4. The surrender requirement for private sector exporters of manufactured goods was reduced to 10% from 25%. March 10. The fo l low ing private, noncommercial transactions were allowed to be effected at the noncommercial rate: (1) up to the equivalent of $20,000 for medical treatment abroad; (2) up to the equ iva lent of $20,000 for educational expenses abroad; and (3) up to the equ iva lent of $3,000 for pilgrimage travel and the equivalent of $2,000 a trip to all coun tr ies except Jordan and Lebanon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 945 May 22. The ComBS was pe rm i t ted to t ran s fer pen s ions in fo re ign currency to Syrians l i v i ng abroad (at the noncommerc ial rate). Exchange arrangement March 23. All noncommerc ial transactions were allowed to be conducted at the noncom- mercial rate. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik somoni. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Tajik somoni is largely determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market in wh ich the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) f requen t ly inter- venes. The off ic ial exchange rate of the somoni against the dollar is set by the NET on the basis of the weighted average of transactions in the interbank and intrabank sectors of the foreign exchange market. The off ic ial exchange rate is set weekly by Friday and is effective from Saturday to the next date of its announcement. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined ind irec t ly through cross exchange rates of the dollar against these currencies. The foreign exchange market consists of the over-the-counter interbank market, the market of intrabank customer transactions, and the network of foreign exchange bureaus belonging to authorized banks conduc t ing exchange transactions w i th cash foreign currency. Based on additional information, the exchange arrangement of Tajikistan was reclassified, effective Ju ly 1, 2002, to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents and nonresidents may use somoni for the settlements of all transactions w i thout restrictions. Settlements between residents and nonresidents in international payments may be made in any foreign currency, except in settlements for exports of cotton products and a lum inum, which may be conducted solely in dollars. Use of foreign currency as legal tender in Tajikistan is not authorized by the NBT. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade is allowed only for aluminum. Administration of control The NBT establishes the procedures for foreign exchange transactions and controls the ir compliance, issues licenses to banks for banking operations in foreign exchange, conducts exclusive supervision of the ir activity, sets open foreign exchange position limits for banks, and controls performance of foreign exchange activities of authorized banks. The MOF controls the status of government and government guaranteed debt and registers inward direct investments. The M in is t ry of State Revenue and Tax Collections supervises collec- tion of taxes and customs duties in international trade. International security restrictions Payments arrears Official No. Yes. Yes. 946 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 947 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Trade in gold is regulated by the Committee on Precious Metals. Controls on external trade Joint ventures that extract gold are subject to controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are allowed free ly without customs regulations. Foreign currencies may be exported free ly by ind iv idua ls up to $2,000 or its equivalent provided that customs regulations are observed. For amounts exceeding this l im i t, docu- ments showing the origin of foreign currencies must be submitted. Imports are permitted by individuals without restrictions provided customs rules are ob- served. Ju r id ical persons may import only through authorized banks and authorized credit ins t i tu t ions. Customs duty of 0.15% is levied on imported cash. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required No. Yes. NET approval is required except where accounts are opened by resident individuals staying abroad temporarily. (For example, in connection with equipment, study, medical treatment, and humanitarian purposes.) Effec t ive Ju ly 26, 2002, accounts may be maintained at any number of banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effec t ive J u ly 26, 2002, accounts may be maintained at any number of banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident juridical persons may acquire foreign currency on the internal foreign ex- change market only w i th somoni earnings from current foreign exchange transactions. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The value of all imported goods must be equal to the amount paid for them. If goods are not delivered, the importer must return the funds transferred earlier within the time period stipulated in the contract or w i th in 180 days of the transfer date, unless a permit issued by the NET prescribes some other period. Deferred payment exceeding 180 days requires an NBT permit. Preparation of a transaction report is required for each import transaction, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 948 TAJIKISTAN Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Licenses w i th quo tas Import taxes and/or tariffs transactions are subject to control by customs authorities and authorized banks un t il their completion. Import licensing applies to tobacco and tobacco products. The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear materials is proh ib i ted. Licenses with quotas apply to imports of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. A lum ina is exempt from duty. Specific customs duties are levied on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, depending on the quan t i ty of goods imported. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be credited to the accounts of residents ma in ta ined with authorized banks or to their accounts abroad with NBT approval. Control must be maintained over complete and timely receipt of export foreign exchange proceeds. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes For exports of cotton, a lum inum, and tobacco, a 100% advance receipt is required. For all other goods, foreign exchange proceeds must be returned within 120 days of the export date. NBT authorization is required for export receipt deferrals exceeding 120 days. Prepa- ration of a transaction report is required for each export transaction, with the exception of transactions in which 100% advance receipts are effected. All transactions are subject to control by customs authorities and authorized banks until their fu ll completion. Licenses are required for the preparation, processing, and export of tobacco and tobacco products. Licenses with quotas apply to exports of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. A sales tax of 10% (effec t ive January 1, 2002; prior to this date, 15%) on cotton fiber ex- ports and a sales tax of 1 % on a lum inum exports are in effect. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments to nonresidents by residents requ ire presentation of documents proving the valid- ity of payment, inc lud ing an NBT permit, where needed, to the authorized bank. Resident ind iv idua ls may transfer cash foreign exchange without opening accounts within the limits of the amounts supported by documents. In addition, they may effect one transfer during one business day up to the equivalent of up to $2,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 949 Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions Capital transac t ions are governed by the Law on Foreign Exchange Regulations and For- eign Exchange Control and NET Regu la t ions on the Procedures on Foreign Exchange Transactions Invo lv ing Capital Movement. MOF approval is required for the purchase of 10% of shares. NBT notification is required for the purchase of over 5% of shares of banks, wh i le NBT approval is required for the purchase of over 20%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBT approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the MOF and approval of the NBT are required. Bonds or other debt securities Registration with the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins t rumen ts NBT approval is requ i red only when these ins trumen ts are treated as securities and when payment on a b i ll of exchange is deferred by more than 180 days. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Res iden ts may purchase from non res iden ts on ly w i th NBT approval. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is requ ired. On co l lec t ive investment securities The regu la t ions govern ing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is requ ired. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is requ i red. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits w i th ma tu r i t ies exceeding 120 days require NBT approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 950 TAJIKISTAN To residents from nonresidents Credits with maturities exceeding 180 days require NET approval. Financial credits Credits with maturities exceeding 180 days require NBT approval. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents There are no controls on backup facilities with maturities of up to 180 days. For those with maturities over 180 days, NBT approval is required. If a bank provides a guarantee, it is required to deposit with the NBT a sum equivalent to the amount of the guarantee. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment NBT approval is required for both outward and inward direct investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment NBT approval is required. Controls on real estate transactions NBT approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Supporting documents must be presented. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only authorized foreign exchange banks may borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad NBT approval is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) NBT approval is required for loans with maturities exceeding 180 days, Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effec t ive January 1, 2003, the reserve requirement is 18% for deposits in domestic and foreign currencies (previously, 20%). Investment regulations Abroad by banks The limit is 20% of capital. Yes. In banks by nonresidents The quota for participation of foreign capital in the banking sector is up to 40%. Open foreign exchange position limits The aggregate open long and short positions are limited to 20% (effective May 15, 2002) and 10% of the bank's capital, respectively. The limits on long and short positions in indi- vidual currencies are 16% (effective May 15, 2002) and 8%, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 951 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement July I. The exchange c lass i f ica t ion of Ta j ik is tan was rec lass if ied to the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independen t ly f loa t ing. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts July 26. Accoun ts were allowed to be ma in ta ined at any number of banks. July 26. Accoun ts were a l lowed to be ma in ta ined at any number of banks. Exports and export proceeds January I. The sales tax on cotton f iber was reduced to 10% from 15%. Capital transactions Prov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and other cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns May 15. The ra t io of aggregate and i n d i v i d u al foreign currency open long positions was changed to 20% and 16% of the b ank 's cap i ta l, respectively. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions P rov i s ions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions January I. The reserve requ i rement for deposits in domestic and foreign currencies was lowered to 18% from 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: Ju ly 15, 1996. Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania sh i l l ing. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the sh i l l ing is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by trans i tory factors. No. No. Au thor ized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with the ir customers in export and import transactions. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market ins trumen ts Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements B i la teral payments arrangements Inoperative Reg ional arrangements C lea r ing agreements Administration of control Payment in domestic currency to a nonresident requires BOT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is an agreement w i th Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the SADC and the EAC. There are agreements w i th Kenya and Uganda. The Foreign Exchange Act vests power in the BOT to administer and manage exchange transactions both on the ma in land and in Zanzibar. The BOT delegates authority to all li- censed banks to make payments abroad. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Yes. 952 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 953 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) On ly au thor ized persons may buy, borrow, se l l, lend, and hold or otherwise deal in gold coins and gold bu l l ion outside Tanzania. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Non res iden ts are allowed to export domestic currency for num isma t ic purposes. Following a currency conv e r t ib i l i ty agreement reached w i th Uganda and Kenya, residents may carry any amount of currency across borders to settle transactions between Tanzania and these countries. Foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Yes. Ho ld ing of foreign currency accounts is allowed for funds acquired outside Tanzania; oth- erwise, the opening and maintaining of offshore foreign currency accounts by residents is subject to restrictions. However, banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions registered in Tanzania are permitted to operate fore ign currency accounts with foreign correspondent banks. In addi- tion, any authorized dealer bank may operate foreign currency accounts abroad on behalf of its customers. These accoun ts must be reported regu la r ly to the BOT. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Access to these accounts is restricted to the UN and related organizations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Nonres ident accounts are ma in ta ined by foreign na t iona ls temporarily res id ing in Tanzania; such accounts are to be closed upon leaving the country. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts Authorized banks may credit funds to or debit funds from blocked (non-interest bearing) accounts of nonres iden ts w i th the approval of the BOT. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i remen ts On ly au thor ized dealers may make advance payments. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The release of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 requires invoices, sh ipp ing documents, a s ing le b i ll of entry form, and a clean report of f ind ings. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 954 TANZANIA Preshipment inspection A clean report of findings is necessary for import payments subject to preshipment inspec- tion. Imports of goods valued at more than $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Yes. Yes. To protect certain industries from un fa ir competition, permits and licenses are required to import tires and sugar. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at four rates: 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. Low tar iffs are also charged on imports of machinery. Spec i f ic duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as well as to religious, educational, and welfare institutions. Zero rates are applicable to strategic and lead investment sectors. About 17 categories of imports from EAC members are subject to a 20% import surcharge (after application of the 80% general tariff preference). About 13 categories of imports from non-EAC countries are subject to 10-40% import surcharges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate their export proceeds in foreign currency to banking institutions; banks are required to report regularly to the BOT exporters fa i l ing to meet this requirement. n.r. Yes. Yes. Licenses from the respective ministries are required for the exportation from the mainland of a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Yes. n.r. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Relevant documentary evidence of the need for foreign exchange must be presented when purchasing foreign exchange from an authorized dealer. These documents are examined by the BOT. The release of foreign exchange for import payments requires invoices, shipping docu- ments, a clean report of findings from an authorized inspection firm, and a single b i ll of entry form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Remittances of portfolio investments and dividends require audited reports and authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 955 Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Travel allowances exceeding $10,000 require the presentation of documents certifying that the leng th of the t r ip is more than 40 days. Personal payments Proper documentation from the relevant educational or medical ins t i tu t ion is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona f ide tests for payment of medical costs. Foreign workers' wages Foreign workers must present work permits to receive foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments App l ican ts for payment of fees related to consultancy, management, and royalty agree- ments need to furn ish contractual documents du ly executed by parties thereto, relevant invo ice /fees notes, and tax clearances from the Tanzania Revenue Au tho r i ty certifying that tax ob l iga t ions have been settled. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona fide tests for certain other payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions All transfers of fore ign currency funds from residents to nonresidents requ ire specific ap- proval f rom the BOT. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Residents may acquire from abroad and sell or transfer abroad any security or coupon on which cap i ta l, d iv idends, or interest are payable in foreign currency, provided that the secu- r i ty has been funded exc lus ive ly by externally acquired funds. The acquisition must be reported to the BOT for statistical purposes. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Pa r t ic ipa t ion of non res iden ts in the domestic money market is restricted. Purchase abroad by residents Shares issued abroad may be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such secur i t ies were acqu ired w i th ex terna l ly generated fund s. These purchases have to be re- ported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts The purchase and redemp t ion must be done in local currency. Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market in s t rumen ts The pa r t ic ipa t ion of non res iden ts in the domestic money market is restricted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 956 TANZANIA Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. BOT approval is not required with respect to applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external f inanc ing facilities, and deferred payment arrangements exceeding 365 days. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Authorized dealers may approve these credits, but must report them to the BOT. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Realization of export proceeds beyond 180 days requires approval by a commercial bank. To residents from nonresidents Au thor ized dealers may approve these credits, but must report them to the BOT. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies There are no controls on these instruments if outside Tanzania, but they must be obtained through authorized dealers, and must be reported to the BOT. By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions There are controls in place for the provision of sureties, guarantees, or financial backup fac i l i t ies to nonresident entities, or transfer of funds to service these facilities. These inves tmen ts requ i re BOT approval. Commercial banks are permitted to authorize access to foreign currency facilities for repa- triation of capital and transfer of income to foreign shareholders. Foreign direct investments exceeding $300,000 that are registered with the Tanzania Investment Center are eligible for incentives. Repatriation of cap i tal and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be re- patriated, p lus authenticated documents from the Tanzania Revenue Authority confirming payment of all relevant taxes. Any person who owns immovable property in Tanzania may assign or transfer such prop- erty to beneficiaries abroad provided that the property was acquired through external re- sources subject to any laws in force in Tanzania. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases requ ire BOT approval. Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Sale loca l ly by non res iden ts These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 957 Debt servicing-related remittances by residents requ i re the submission of the relevant con- tract as approved by a commercial bank together with creditors' demand notes to that ef- fect. Commercial banks have to furn ish the BOT with monthly reports on loans serviced. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Documentary requirements must be met. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to external debt management regulations. Otherwise, banks and finan- cial institutions are allowed to operate credit lines with correspondents. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The BOT re/quires that all statutory reserves be held in local currency and allows banks' averaging of daily positions and the counting of half their vault cash toward meeting the requ iremen t. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad The regu la t ions governing the purchase abroad by residents of shares and other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Currency The currency of Tha i land is the Thai baht Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the baht is determined in the fore ign exchange market. The baht- dollar reference exchange rate is announced daily, based on the average exchange rate of the previous day. The authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market as conditions require. No. No. Financial institutions may engage in spot foreign exchange market transactions with non- residents in local currency. Approval is requ i red for nonresidents to sell foreign currencies for baht for same-day de l ivery (value same day) and for next-day de l ive ry (value tomor- row). Forward transactions need to be related to the unde r ly ing trade and f inanc ial transac- tions. In the case of no under ly ing trade and inves tment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities, inc lud ing swap and forward exchange contracts obtained by a nonresident from all domestic f inanc ial institutions combined, are subject to a maximum outstanding l im it of the equ iva lent of B 50 m i l l i o n. The non re s iden t 's head o f f ice, branches, representa- t ive offices, and a f f i l ia ted companies are counted as one en t i ty. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Baht credit fac i l i t ies provided by resident banks to nonres iden ts by way of de r iva t ives must be used for domestic trade or investment activities. For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign exchange for domestic payments. Thailand is a member of ASEAN. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) administers exchange con tro ls on beha lf of the MOF, but it delegates respons ib i l i ty to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce (MOC). On January 18, 2002, the Thai authorities no t if ied the IMF that the BOT had, on October 18 and December 27, 2001, instructed banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in Thailand to freeze any movements of capital and assets of certain ind iv idu a l s, terrorists, and terrorist organizations pu rsuant to UN Security Counc il Re so lu t ions 1267 and 1373. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 958 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 959 Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and domestically trade gold jewe lry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tu res exchanges are prohibited. Controls on external trade Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding the equivalent of B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad and if, upon deposit, the depositors submit documents showing their obligation to pay in foreign currency to persons residing abroad, resident-authorized banks, the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, or the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand w i th in three months of the date of deposit, and they may deposit amounts not exceeding their obligations. Effec t ive Ju ly 30, 2002, the total out- standing balances in all accounts should not exceed the equivalents of $10 m i l l ion for a ju r id ical person (previously, $5 m i l l ion) and $500,000 for a natural person. Yes. Approval is required if deposits are made with funds of domestic origin. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 THAILAND Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other non t a r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers are requ ired to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose value exceeds the equivalent of B 500,000 when submitting import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as m i l i ta ry equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Most goods may be f ree ly imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Imports of some goods are prohibited for security or social reasons. M i lk product producers are requ ired to purchase loca l ly produced m i lk in some quan t i ty when they import skim m i lk into Thailand. Ad valorem and/or specific du t ies are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on cer ta in products. Tariff rates between zero and 5% apply to two-thirds of the tar iff l ines for goods imported from AFTA coun tr ies. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding the equ iva lent of B 500,000 must be repatriated immediately after payment is received and w i th in 120 days from the date of export. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in seven days of receipt. Foreign exchange earners are allowed to deposit their foreign exchange in their foreign currency accounts only if they have ob l iga t ions to pay out such amounts to nonresi- dents abroad w i th in three months of the deposit date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters are requ i red to complete a foreign exchange transaction form for transactions exceeding the equ iva lent of B 500,000 when subm i t t ing the export entry form at customs. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of rice, canned tun a, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and tex t i le products are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of des t ina t ion. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to higher ad valorem or specific du t ies. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers effec t ive J u ly 30, 2002, fo re ign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transac- tions of more than the equ iva lent of $10,000 (previously, $5,000). Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Thailand w i th in seven days of receipt. Travelers passing through Tha i land, foreign embassies, and in te rna t ional organizations are exempted from this requ i remen t. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 961 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The sale or issue of secur i t ies is under the ju r i sd ic t ion of the Securities Exchange Commis- sion (SEC). Under the securities law, rules and regulations d i f fer according to types of securities and the ir maturity. Companies wishing to issue securities to the public need ap- proval from the DOT and the SEC. Trading of securities in secondary markets requires registration with the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of the total amount of shares sold in locally incorporated banks, finance companies, credit finance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an individual and related family members may not exceed 5% of a bank's total amount of shares sold and 10% of that of finance compa- nies and credit foncier companies. Foreign equity participation is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. Foreign investors are allowed to hold more than 49% of the total shares sold in local financial institutions for up to 10 years, after which the amount of shares will be grandfathered, and the nonresidents w i ll not be allowed to purchase new shares until the ratio of shares he ld by them is brought down to 49%. Effective Ju ly 30, 2002, purchases of shares under employee stock option plans exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 were allowed without BOT approval. Previously, all purchases were subject to BOT approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required under the regulations governing domestic issuance. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions requ ire the approval of the MOF, BOT, and SEC. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The po ten t ial issuer must submit an application for approval to the SEC, and permission w i ll be granted if the issuer can prove that the security w i ll be traded exc lus ive ly on pri- mary or secondary markets abroad. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions r equ i re the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. However, f inance companies are allowed to issue nego- tiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) and b i l ls of exchange in foreign currency with more than a one-year ma tu r i ty for sale to the pub l ic abroad or for sale to ins t i tu t ions that are au- thorized to deal in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds associated with these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. There are no controls on the purchase of securities offered by local fund management companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The l aun ch ing of funds requ ires approval from the SEC, both locally and abroad, and only local fund management companies are allowed to issue th is instrument. In addition, funds managed by local firms w i ll be deemed to have Thai nationality regardless of the national- ity of the ma jor i ty of the un it holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 962 THAILAND Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment In cases where there are no u n d e r l y i ng trade and inves tment ac t iv i t ies in Tha i land, Thai baht credit fac i l i t ies, i n c l u d i ng swap and forward exchange contracts obtained by a non- resident from all domestic f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions comb ined, are subject to a max imum out- standing l im it of B 50 m i l l ion. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative of- fices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. The issuance of warrants or equity-related ins t rumen ts and bonds by non res iden ts in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval cr i ter ia are based on the soundness of the unde r ly ing stock. There is no d iscr im ina tory practice against nonres iden ts for participating in the f inanc ial market. The purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. The sale of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds requ i re BOT approval. In cases where there are no und e r ly ing trade and inves tment ac t iv i t ies in Thailand, Thai baht credit fac i l i t ies in the form of der iva t ives obtained by a non res ident f rom all domestic f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions combined are subject to a m a x im um ou ts tand ing limit of B 50 m i l l ion. The nonres iden t's head off ice, branches, representative offices, and a f f i l ia ted companies are counted as one entity. F inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are allowed to extend direct loans in Thai baht with collateral to nonresident natural persons permitted to work in Thailand for not less than one year. F inanc ial institutions may issue letters of guarantee to nonresidents when there is a stand-by LC from a f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion abroad. Direct loans in Thai baht may be made to entities in neighboring countries (i.e., Cambodia, southern parts of China, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Myanmar, and Vietnam) under specified conditions and w i th prior BOT approval. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred payments, bilateral netting, or open ac- counts. Most payments are settled w i th in 120 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits, subject to the ru le of net for- eign exchange position. W i thout approval from the BOT, residents may grant on ly loans of up to $10 m i l l ion (or the equivalent) a year to their a f f i l ia ted companies, provided that they own at least 10% of total shares in the company (prior to Ju ly 30, 2002, 25%). There is no control on these credits. Repayment of f inanc ial credits to nonres iden ts may be made free ly as long as residents have an obligation to pay nonresidents in foreign currency and the proceeds of credit are repatriated. Resident banks are allowed to guarantee transactions by nonres iden ts when under tak ing bids or performance bonds to government agencies, state enterprises, or other legal persons in Thailand. However, resident banks must be provided w i th stand-by LCs from f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns abroad as co l la teral of nonres iden ts (back-to-back guarantee). Inves tmen ts exceed ing $10 m i l l i on (or the equ iva len t) a year requ i re BOT approval. Foreign capital may be brought into the country w i thout restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand w i t h in seven days of receipt. Controls on liquidation of direct investment All proceeds may be repatriated w i thout restriction upon submission of suppor t ing evidence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 963 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective Ju ly 30, 2002, Thai residents are allowed to purchase immovable assets for resi- dential purposes up to the equivalent of $500,000 per person without approval of the BOT. Previously, BOT approval was required for all purchases. The purchase of property is not allowed with funds that originate from abroad. The foreign ownership limit for condominiums without BOT approval is 49% of the total value. Own- ership of property by foreign entities with majority shares in Thai financial institutions is, at present, governed by the Commercial Banking Act and the Act on the Undertaking of Fi- nance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Thai residents are allowed to send up to the equivalent of $100,000 to relatives abroad who hold permanent resident permits w i thout approval from the BOT. No. Yes. Thai emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad up to $1 million (or the equivalent) a year without BOT approval. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is illegal in Thailand. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions In cases in which there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit instruments in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domes- tic financial institutions combined are subject to a max imum outstanding limit of B 50 mil- lion. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated compa- nies are counted as one entity. Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or w i thout underlying transactions or collateral is prohibited, except that lending to natural persons is allowed under specified conditions and lending to entities in neighboring countries requires BOT approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Government financial institutions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not al- lowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency without restriction. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Commercial lending denominated in foreign currencies to particular indus tr ies may be par- t ia l ly (50%) inc luded as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fu l ly repaid as exchange rate risk rises. Commercial banks may purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign ex- change. Finance companies without foreign exchange licenses are required to obtain BOT permission for purchases of locally issued securities in foreign exchange. Commercial banks are requ ired to maintain at least 6% of their nonresident foreign ex- change deposits in the form of (1) nonremunerated balance at the BOT (at least 2%); (2) vau lt cash (at most 2.5%); and (3) eligible securities (the rest). Finance and securities companies are not allowed to accept foreign exchange deposits. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a l im i ted company ( in c lud ing pub- lic companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of the ir capital f u n d. Banks may seek approval to hold shares above the 10% l im it in the fo l low ing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 964 THAILAND cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that operate as finan- cial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are benefi- cial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Permission is generally granted to commercial banks to hold between 10% and 20% of the total number of distributed shares of any l im i ted company that is its debtor. The va lue of these shares may exceed 20% of the bank 's capital funds on ly if the excess portion was acquired in a debt restructuring process under BOT gu ide l ine s. Foreign investors may invest in Thai commercial banks up to 25% of the total amount of shares sold. Foreign investors may be allowed, on a case-by-case basis, to hold up to 100% of shares sold in commercial banks, finance companies, and credit foncier companies for a period of 10 years, wh ich w i ll be grand fathered. However, after the 10-year period, they w i ll not be allowed to purchase add i t ional shares un less the ir ho ld ing is less than 49% of the total amount of shares sold. The regulation on net foreign exchange exposure limits allows commercial banks to main- tain positions in terms of the ir first-tier capital of no more than 15% oversold or over- bought. In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions spec if ic to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on secu r i t ies issued by nonres iden ts Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Limits (min .) on investment por tfo l io held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Approval of the BOT is requ ired. Mu tual funds and pension funds must invest their total portfolio in the domestic market. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the fund may be invested in equity and securities or debt instruments issued by juridical persons incorpo- rated under the ASEAN Agreement or the United Nations' Economic and Social Commis- sion for As ia and the Pac i f ic Agreement spec if ica l ly for reinsurance; and (2) the funds may be invested in equ i ty issued by nonres ident ju r id i c al persons other than specified in (1) with approval from the au tho r i t ies, and by us ing the surp lus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. Portfolio investment of l i fe and non- l ife insurance companies is governed by the acts and no t if ica t ions of the MOC. The criteria are as follows: (1) total investment in equity and securities or debt instruments, stock of other l i fe and non - l i fe insurance companies, and un it trus ts shou ld not exceed 40% of total assets; (2) red iscount of state enterprise bonds guar- anteed by the MOF is un l im i ted; and (3) inves tment in securities abroad requires approval from the appropr ia te au tho r i ty, wh ich is granted on a case-by-case basis. The cr i ter ia for inves tment of pens ion f u n ds are as follows: (1) investment of at least 60% in government bonds, state enterprise bonds, deposits at commercial banks, and debt instruments issued by commercial banks; and (2) inves tment of not more than 40% in promissory notes of f inance companies, stocks, and other debt instruments. In addition, the ceiling on investment in stocks is 25% of the por tfo l io, and that on any single stock is 5% of the portfolio. Under the S e c u r i t i es Ac t, non res iden ts may invest in Thai secur i ty companies, subject to the f o l l ow i ng res tr ic t ions: (1) foreign investors may invest in the foreign companies abroad where those companies may impose a lower l im it of ho ld ing than the 50% l im it imposed on ho ld ing in any company; and (2) foreign investors may also invest in up to 50% of nonvot- ing depository receipts. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai securi- ties market in the form of representative offices whose role is limited to providing research material for the ir parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter into joint partner- ship w i th Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 18. The Thai authorities no t if ied the IMF that the BOT had, on October 18 and December 27, 2001, instructed banks and other f inanc ial institutions in Thailand to freeze Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 965 Resident accounts any movements of capital and assets of certain individuals, terrorists, and terrorist organiza- tions pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373. July 30. The limit on foreign currency account balances for a juridical person was increased to the equivalent of $10 million from $5 million. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 30. The m in imum amount of foreign exchange transactions required to be reported to the BOT was increased to the equivalent of $10,000 from $5,000. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on real estate transactions July 30. Residents were allowed to purchase shares under employee stock option plans up to the equivalent of $100,000 without BOT approval. Previously, BOT approval was re- quired for all purchases. July 30. Lending to affiliated companies with ownership of at least 10% was allowed (pre- viously, 25%). July 30. Thai residents were allowed to purchase immovable assets for residential purposes up to the equivalent of $500,000 a person without BOT approval. Previoulsy, BOT ap- proval was required for all purchases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TIMOR-LESTE (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 23, 2002. Currency The currency of Timor-Leste is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely. Foreign exchange transactions are ef- fected through two foreign-owned commercial banks and two licensed currency exchange bureaus. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Foreign currency All transactions must be effected in dollars. No. Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange controls rests with the Banking and Payments Authority (BPA), which has the power to regulate the payment and settle- ment system for domestic and foreign currency. No. No. No. Imports of foreign currencies exceeding the equivalent of $2,000 are prohibited without a permit from the BPA. Imports of currencies whose issuers maintain export restrictions are limited to the equivalent of $500 without BPA approval. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically There are no restrictions on the ho ld ing of foreign exchange accounts but withdrawals from these accounts must be made in dollars. Held abroad Yes. 966 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TIMOR-LESTE 967 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency W i thd rawa ls f rom bank accounts in foreign currencies are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Withdrawals from bank accounts in foreign currencies are prohibited. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. No. No. With the exception of selected items (e.g., cigarettes and alcohol —with certain limits —and the househo ld effects of re tu rn ing former residents), a un i fo rm ad valorem tar iff of 6% (prior to J u ly 1, 2002, 5%) is levied on all imports, and excise taxes are levied on imports of selected goods at specific or ad valorem rates of 12% (prior to July 1, 2002, 10%) de- pending on the types of goods (on Ju ly 1, 2002, specific rates were increased by 10-170%). A sales tax of 6% (prior to Ju ly 1, 2002, 5%) is levied on the combined value of customs assessment, import du ty, and excise tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatr iat ion requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 968 TIMOR-LESTE Controls on capital transactions Domestic cap i tal and money markets have not yet developed. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Owne rsh ip of land by fore igners is p roh ib i ted. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions L e n d i ng lo c a l ly in fo re ign exchange A ll domestic t ransac t ions must be made in do l lars. Purchase of l o c a l ly issued secu r i t ies denom ina ted in fo re ign exchange Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws All domes t ic t ransac t ions must be made in do l lars. No. No. Changes During 2002 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Imports and import payments July 23. Timor-Leste jo in ed the IMF and accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement. July I. The import du ty was raised to 6% f rom 5%, the excise tax on imports was raised to 12% from 10%, the specific tax rates on imports were increased by 10-170%, and the sales tax was raised to 6% from 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, wh ich is the off ic ial buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Togo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are mainly made in euros, but they may also be made in other foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be con- ducted freely. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing arrangement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO relate to outward direct investment, domestic foreign exchange accounts, and accounts of residents abroad. W i th in the framework of the regional financial market, the issue, soliciting, and sale of foreign or domestic securities in Togo is subject to the prior approval of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MOF. 969 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 970 TOGO Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare them to customs when entering Togo. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior MOF authorization. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Nonresidents may debit freely their accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 971 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Preshipment inspection Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A dom ic i l ia t ion requ i rement applies to all imports f rom outside the franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 m i l l i o n. All imports arr iv ing by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 m i l l i on are subject to pr ior inspec t ion. Letters of credit LCs may be opened for all import operations, regardless of or ig in. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Open general licenses Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). Other non t a r i ff measures Certain imports, e.g., narco t ics, are prohibited from any source. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A common so l idar i ty fee of 1% and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c . i . f. va lue of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A s ta t is t ical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received w i t h in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their d e s t in a t ion. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU coun t r ies do not need to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment. The au- thorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions are subject to a customs declaration. Letters of c red it Domiciliation P re sh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports to all countries requ ire licenses in certain cases. Yes. Phospha te rock is subject to a specific export tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv i s ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly. Payments for inv i s ib l es related to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- t ion when the basic trade t ransac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au thor iza t ion. Paymen ts abroad for i n v i s i b le t ransac t ions may be made free ly, subject to the presentation of documen ta ry ev idence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 972 TOGO Inves tmen t - re la ted paymen ts Prior approval Cu r rent transfers abroad of funds requ ired to service loans are unrestricted. These must, however, be carried out through an authorized bank and are to be reported for statistical purposes to the MOF. Payments for depreciation of direct investments require prior au- tho r iza t ion from the MOF, since this type of deprec ia t ion is not spec if ica l ly mentioned in the regulations. Funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be transferred freely, but this must be effected th rough an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The MOF ve r i f ies transac t ions that requ i re its au thor iza t ion. Payments for travel Quantitative limits A l lo c a t ions for payments exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion may be taken out in t rave le r 's checks, bank draf ts, or other means of payment. The th re sho ld of fore ign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There is no control on the payment of pensions. There are no limits on transfers related to s tud ies abroad, f am i ly ma in tenance, or alimony. However, such payments must be made th rough an au thor ized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pen- sions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon pres- entation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona f ide tests are conducted by authorized agents. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds f rom i n v i s i b le transactions w i th non -WAEMU member coun tr ies must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions w i th WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other coun tr ies with respect to services, and all income earned in those coun tr ies from foreign assets must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions All inves tmen ts abroad by res iden ts requ i re pr ior MOF au thor iza t ion, and at least 75% of the f i n a n c i ng of such inves tmen ts shou ld be effected by borrowing f rom abroad. Authoriza- tion is not requ ired in the case of capital transfers for investments of residents abroad in- vo lv ing secur i t ies that were p rev iou s ly issued or sold with the approval of the RCPSFM. Transfers of cap i tal abroad are subject to controls. Capital inf lows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted, w i th the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declara- t ion, and certain borrowing operations, wh ich require pr ior authorization. In the imp lemen ta t ion of the prov is ions indicated in th is document, the term "foreigner" refers to all non -WAEMU coun t r ies w i th respect to l im i t ing the open positions of banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and with respect to the fo l low ing operations: repatriation of export proceeds; issue and sale of fore ign securities; exports and imports of gold; foreign direct inves tmen ts; c red it operations with nonres iden ts; and exports through the post by means of payment related to transactions in securities. For statistical purposes related to the compilation of the balance of payments of an individ- ual WAEMU member, all o ther coun t r ies are considered as fore ign. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 973 Controls on capital and money market instruments W i th the exception of the issue and sale in the country of foreign securities, operations in securities are not covered exp l ic i t ly by specific laws. However, by their nature, these opera- tions are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresi- dents. However, the reinvestment of proceeds from the liquidation of a foreign investment by a resident requ ires pr ior MOF authorization. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior au thor iza t ion of the RCPSFM is requ ired for the issuance and marke t ing of secur i t ies and capital assets of foreign entities, as we ll as for p u b l i c i ty and advertising of investments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MOF. On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by non res iden ts The issue of secur i t ies and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Togo by nonresi- dents are subject to prior RCPSFM au tho r iza t ion. Residents may purchase free ly secur i t ies that have been p rev ious ly au thor ized for issue and sale. Payments related to such purchases require presentation of the appropriate documentation. There are no con t ro ls on the sale of secur i t ies resu l t ing from the d ives t i ture of investment in the form of a transfer between a non res ident and a res iden t, subject to the regulations gov- erning the f inanc ial settlement of the operation. Settlement of secur i t ies transac t ions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Prior MOF au tho r iza t ion is required. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Togolese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MOF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized intermediary and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes, but does not require prior authorization. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Non res iden ts may acquire money market ins t rumen ts th rough local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonres iden ts of money market in s t rumen ts on the local market is sub- ject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- t ions is un res t r ic ted if the issue itself has received pr ior au tho r iza t ion, and must be effected th rough an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market ins trumen ts abroad by residents. Sales to l iqu ida te an inves tment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or l iqu id a t ion must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by res iden ts of money market ins t rumen ts abroad is governed by the provisions per ta in ing to borrowing. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies The regu la t ions govern ing money market ins t rumen ts apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These in s t rumen t s, wh ich are almost nonex is tent in Togo, are governed by the regu la t ions gene ra l ly app l icab le to secu r i t ies and inves tmen ts. Res iden ts may purchase and sell options free ly. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 974 TOGO Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply w i th spec if ic cond i t ions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject on ly to repor t ing for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resu l t ing from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date s t ipu la ted in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days fo l low ing the arrival of the mer- chandise at its des t ina t ion. (2) Claims r e su l t ing from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one mon th after the pay- ment due date. These credits may be f ree ly granted. Repayment is u s u a l ly authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the re levant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of f inanc ial credits requ ires the p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these fac i l i t ies, an exchange au tho r iza t ion must be submit- ted w i th the requ i red documen ta t ion to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the f u n ds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Togo and its parent company located abroad, they are consid- ered direct investments and are therefore subject to pr ior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The g ran t ing of these fac i l i t ies requ ires pr ior MOF au tho r iza t ion. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing f inanc ial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by res iden ts Pr ior MOF approval is requ ired. At least 75% of such investments must be f inanced by foreign loans. The inves tor must subm it a wr i t ten request ind i c a t ing the authorized in ter- med iary charged w i th mak ing the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These inves tmen ts, i n c l u d i ng the ir transfer between non res iden ts, are subject to pr ior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be f ree ly transferred abroad by a non res ident or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the requ ired documen ta t ion to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts abroad by a resident requ i res a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate inves tment abroad by res iden ts is subject to p r ior approval by the MOF. The inves tor must subm it a wr i t ten request ind ica t ing the au thor ized in te rmed ia ry charged w i th making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited in a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts There are con t ro ls on purchases when they do not invo lve direct investment in an enter- prise, branch, or corporation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 975 Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These credits may be granted freely on the condition that they be effected through an au- thorized bank and be reported to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other Operations Account countries require prior MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Upon presentation of documents ju s t i fy ing their income, emigrants may transfer their pen- sions, rents, or salaries freely through banks. Transfers of more than CFAF 300,000 are subject to the submission of supporting documentation. Authorized intermediaries may borrow free ly abroad, but these transactions must be re- ported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to keep liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions may be conducted freely but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Domestic lend ing denominated in foreign exchange or the purchase of foreign currency- denominated securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the MOF with approval of the BCEAO. These purchases requ ire prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the In ter-Afr ican Conference on Insurance Markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 976 TOGO Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tonga is the Tongan pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged exchange rate w i th in ho r izon tal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The external va lue of the pa'anga is de te rm ined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comp r is ing the Au s t ra l ian do l lar (19%), the Japanese yen (6%), the New Zealand do l lar (23%), and the U.S. dollar (52%). The exchange rate of the pa'anga in terms of the U.S. do l la r, the in t e rv en t ion currency, is f ixed d a i ly by the Na t ional Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT) w i t h in a band of ±5%. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to p rov ide forward exchange cover, but gross foreign ex- change l iab i l i t ies may not exceed T$l m i l l ion. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no p a r t i cu l ar requ iremen ts, but settlements are no rma l ly made in convertible currencies acceptable to both parties. Tonga participates in PACER and PICTA. Adm in istrat ion of control The NRBT adm in is ters fore ign exchange control regu la t ions. The NRBT delegates to authorized dealers approval au thor i ty for current payments and transfers not exceeding T$50,000. All payments exceeding T$50,000 require the prior ap- proval of the NRBT. All cap i tal transfers requ i re the pr ior approval of the NRBT. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res ident i n d i v i d u a ls are allowed to open fore ign exchange accounts. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. 977 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 978 TONGA Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may, w i t h o ut reference to the NRBT, approve app l ica t ions for import transactions for amounts not exceeding T$50,000 or its equivalent. The prior approval of the NRBT is requ ired for transactions in excess of T$50,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for selected imports, such as motor vehicles, firearms, and explosives. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of nox ious gases and fireworks are proh ib i ted. Import quotas app ly on ly to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers, but these restrictions are curren t ly not enforced. Imports of certain items are restricted for cu l- tu ra l, env i ronmen ta l, hea l th, or secur i ty reasons. Ad valorem import ta r i f fs on most goods range up to 35%. Imports of a few items (petro- leum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific or ad valorem rates of up to 525%. The ta r i ff rate on motor veh ic les is 45%. Imports by the government, the pub- lic sector, and d ip loma t ic missions of certain goods under technical assistance agreements, and of personal effects are exempt from ta r i f fs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items covered under the Indu s t r ial Development Incentives Act, which qua l i fy for concessional rates, and for imports of governmental and quasi- governmental organizations, wh ich are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 12 months, but th is regu la t ion is cu r ren t ly not enforced. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are requ i red for all exports we igh ing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted l ibera l ly, except for exports of squash. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 979 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, provide foreign exchange for invisible payments up to the equivalent of T$50,000. The prior approval of the NRBT, with submission of supporting documentation, is required for payments in excess of T$50,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Prior approval of the NRBT is required for all capital transactions. Capital Transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 980 TONGA Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Licenses are required for foreign direct investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are approved if there is a local partner. Investment is al- lowed in certain sectors, inc lud ing wholesale and retail, transportation, some tourism- related activities, and all resource-based activities (such as fishing). Joint ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. The time period for the approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 9 81 process is no rma l ly about one week. Once licensed, foreign projects in manufacturing and tour ism are e l ig ib le for all incen t ives. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) allows the exchange rate to move within a narrow range and maintains an informal ceiling on the exchange rate of TT$6.30 per US$1. No. No. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public w i thout limitation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Settlements may be made in Canadian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Nor- wegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Transac- tions on the use of domestic currency for current transactions and payments and capital transactions are not regulated. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar is the legal tender of the country. Only authorized dealers are allowed to buy, sell, borrow, or lend foreign currency to any person other than an au- thorized dealer without the permission of the CBTT. Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the CARICOM. Trinidad and Tobago is the agent for the inoperative Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility. Au thor i ty to administer exchange control is vested in the CBTT acting under the authority o f t h eMO F. No. No. Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for numismatic purposes, Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between resi- dents must be an authorized bank. Controls on external trade Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) and are subject to specific export licenses, which are normally issued only to monetary authorities. 982 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 983 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency For amoun ts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. For amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$5,000, a customs declaration is required. Res iden ts and nonresidents may b r ing in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amounts a customs dec lara t ion is requ ired. Res ident and non re s ident travelers may b r ing in banknotes up to the equivalent of US$5,000 freely; for larger amounts a customs declaration is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n . r. n . r. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Du ty - f ree l icenses are granted to local concessionary manu fac tu re rs for imports of certain i n p u ts for m a n u f a c t u r i n g. Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Other non t a r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Impo r ts of f i rea rms, ammun i t ion, and narco t ics are t igh t ly con t ro l led. All goods, un less exempted for reasons of health or security, may be imported under OGL arrangemen ts. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live ani- ma ls, p l an t s, and m i n i ng ma ter ia ls are subject to specific regu la t ions. In accordance w i th the fou r th phase of the CARICOM GET, the customs du ty rates on most goods range f rom 5% to 20%. The rate on ag r icu l tu ral produce is 40%. The du ty rates on new motor veh ic les range f rom 25% to 45%. All goods o r ig ina t ing from CARICOM ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 984 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO coun t r ies are exempt f rom du t ie s, as are imports of some foods tuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials. Local enterprises produc ing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemp t ions f rom cus toms du t ies by the MTI and the Tourism Indus tr ial Development Company, Ltd. State import monopoly Imports of an imal feed, f l o u r, rice, petroleum, and edible oils are traded pr inc ipa l ly by state compan ies. Repatriation requirements In practice, the fore ign-owned pe tro leum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repa- triates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Exports and Export Proceeds F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes I n d i v i d u al l icenses are requ i red for some foods tu f fs, firearms and explosives, animals, gold, pe tro leum and petroleum products, and certain products not produced locally. Export licenses for all other commodities are granted under OGLs. General licenses may also be issued at the d iscre t ion of the MTI. Most export licenses are granted w i t h o ut quotas. Quotas are sometimes es tab l ished for the export of some products, such as f i sh, on the basis of local supp ly. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secur i t ies Cross-border t rad ing of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the former two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Ho ld ing shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the F inanc ial Ins t i tu t ions Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd d irect inves tment No. No. Ho ld ing shares in local compan ies is sub ject to compliance w i th the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 985 Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Ho ld ing interest in real estate is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements The reserve requ i rement applicable to domestic currency deposits is 18%. A supplemental reserve requ i rement of 5% applies, which can be held in treasury securities. A reserve re- quirement of 9% applies to nonbank institutions. Liquid asset requirements A l iqu id asset ratio of 20% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Licensed institutions are required to maintain a minimum capital position equal to 10% of the ir net currency exposure. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. L im i ts (m in .) on inves tment po r t fo l io held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Insu rance companies are required to hold at least 80% of their investment assets locally, The Insu rance Act imposes other controls. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Currency The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in which commercial banks, inc lud ing offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident customers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) intervenes in the market and publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the fo l low ing day, at the latest. Because the CBT pursues a real effective exchange rate rule, the exchange arrangement of Tunisia was reclassified, effective January 1, 2002, to the category crawling peg from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Resident banks trade freely in foreign currencies in the spot market among themselves, with their foreign correspondents, and with nonresident banks in Tunisia. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the interbank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward rates are free ly negotiated by the authorized counterpart bank. Forward cover may be estab- lished for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are e l ig ib le for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided w i th in 30 days of the date on wh ich the claim originated. Resident enterprises may purchase, in the for- ward market, fu tu res maturing in up to 12 months to hedge against exchange risks related to the repayment of their foreign currency loans. They may also sell, for terms of up to 12 months, the foreign currency from drawings on external loans or from foreign cur- rency investments. Nonresidents may enter into contracts with resident licensed intermediaries for forward purchases of convertible dinars, maturing in up to 12 months. Resident licensed intermedi- aries may engage in, among themselves or with resident enterprises, foreign cur- rency/convertible dinar swaps, maturing in up to 12 months. They may also engage in for- eign currency/convertible dinar swaps with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, their foreign correspondent banks, and nonresident enterprises operating in Tunisia, to make spot purchases and forward sales of convertible dinars. For the purposes of hedging against foreign currency interest rate risks, forward rate agreements may be signed for terms of 12 months by resident enterprises with foreign correspondent banks and by resident enter- prises with resident banks and nonresident banks operating in Tunisia. Residents contract- ing such foreign currency loans may also purchase 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options in dollars and euros. Options in other currencies may be listed on request. Licensed intermediaries may set the forward exchange rates for foreign currencies against dinars applied to customers' forward transactions in accordance with the procedures followed in international markets. Off ic ial cover of forward operations The reinsurance company manages th is exchange cover mechanism for banks and financial institutions in respect of their borrowings abroad. 986 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of currency requirements TUNISIA 987 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Se t t lemen ts between Tun is ia and other countries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Paymen ts to Israel are proh ib i ted. Settlements between Tun i s ia and Algeria, Libya, Mau r i tan ia, and Morocco may be effected th rough conver t ib le accounts in the na t ional currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Controls on the use of domestic cu r rency Payments in d inars may be made abroad through a convertible dinar foreign account main- ta ined domes t ica l ly in the name of the fore ign creditors or of the ir banks. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in cap i tal and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other ins t rumen ts Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of fo re ign exchange among res iden ts The d i n ar is the cu r rency of account and the currency of payment transac t ions between res iden ts, un less otherwise au thor ized by the CBT subsequent to approval from the MOF. Payments arrangements Reg ional arrangemen ts Adm in istrat ion of control Tun i s ia has signed free-trade agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, and Morocco. Exchange con t rol is adm in is tered by the CBT and the M in i s t ry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates au tho r i ty over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks, whereas the MOT adm in is ters fore ign trade control, wh ich en ta i ls issuing import and ex- port au tho r iza t ion for the rema in ing products not covered by the l ibera l iza t ion of foreign trade. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or t rade Yes. Con t ro ls on ex te rnal trade The CBT has a monopo ly over the impo r ta t ion and exportation of monetary gold. Imports and exports of gold in o ther forms r equ i re j o i nt approval from the CBT and the MOT. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonres ident travelers w i sh ing to reexport the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts ex- ceed ing D 1,000 mu st declare to customs the foreign currencies they are impor t ing upon t h e ir en t ry i n to Tun i s ia. There is no c e i l ing on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonres ident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be reexported upon p re sen ta t ion of a fo re ign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less th an D 1,000 or if the fo re ign exchange used in the purchase of the d ina rs was received abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by deb i t ing a fo re ign account in fo re ign currency or conver t ib le d inars. The foreign exchange impo rt dec la ra t ion approved by customs is also requ i red if the amount of fore ign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 988 On imports TUNISIA f rom d inar reconversion equals or exceeds the equ iva lent of D 1,000 derived from the sur- render of foreign currencies phys ica l ly imported from abroad. Domestic currency Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Approval required He ld abroad (1) P ro fess ional accoun ts in fore ign currency may be opened by (i) any resident na tural person, ( i i) any Tun i s ian ju r id ical person, and (iii) any foreign juridical person in Tunisia w i th fore ign currency assets in connection w i th the ir activities. These accounts may be credited w i th (i) a max imum of 50% (or up to 100% with CBT authorization) of foreign exchange proceeds f rom the account ho lde r 's exports and foreign currency loans contracted in con fo rm i ty w i th the regu la t ions in force; ( i i) interest accrued on the balances of these accounts; and ( i i i) transfers from the account holder's other professional accounts in the same currency or any other currency. The accoun ts may be debited for (i) payment of any current operation per ta in ing to the ac t iv i ty for wh ich they were opened, and (ii) any other transac t ion w i th general or spec if ic au thor iza t ion. Balances may be placed on the foreign exchange market. (2) Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) natural persons of Tunisian n a t ion a l i ty chang ing the ir normal residence to Tun is ia from abroad; (ii) resident natural persons of Tunisian nationality or Tunisian juridical persons for their nontransferable assets leg i t ima te ly acqu ired abroad; ( i i i) na tu ral persons of foreign na t iona l i ty residing in Tunisia; (iv) fore ign j u r i d i c al persons w i th branches in Tun is ia; and (v) Tun is ian diplomats and civil servants stationed abroad. Funds leg i t ima te ly acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services f rom Tun i s ia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (i) foreign exchange sold on the interbank market; (ii) foreign exchange remitted to the account ho lde r, his or her spouse, parents, and o f fsp r ing to undertake foreign travel; ( i i i) amoun ts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and ( iv) any payments abroad, i n c l u d i ng those for the acqu is i t ion of movable or real estate property located abroad or ownersh ip r igh ts abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. (3) Res iden ts are free to open foreign cu r rency in te rna t ional trading accounts to make pay- ments related to their international merchanting and brokerage operations and associated expenses. These accoun ts may be credited w i th (i) the proceeds from sales of goods abroad, for wh ich advance payment is received; ( i i) profits and/or commission from international trade and brokerage operations; ( i i i) fore ign currency loans contracted to ref inance trade operations; ( iv) fore ign cu r rency from trade operations repurchased on the exchange market after it has been sold on the market; (v) interest generated by deposits on the account. They may be debited for (i) payments for purchases made w i th in the framework of international trade operations and associated expenses; ( i i) settlement of expenses related to international brokerage operations; ( i i i) repay ing foreign currency loans; (iv) settlement of current opera- t ions carried out in con fo rm i ty w i th the exchange and fore ign trade regu la t ions and any operation carried out with general or special authorization; and (v) sales of foreign curren- cies in the exchange market. Special accounts held by residents must be declared to the CBT. CBT au tho r iza t ion is requ i red for residents to hold accounts abroad. Resident banks may free ly open correspondent current accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency P ro fess ional accounts in conve r t ib le d ina rs may be opened by resident natural or ju r id ical persons w i th resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT authorization. These accounts may be cred i ted and debited in accordance w i th the terms specified by the CBT in the a u t h o r i z a t i on to open such accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 989 Special accounts in conver t ib le d inars may be opened by the same natural and juridical persons that may open special fore ign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be credited with the d inar proceeds from sales on the interbank market of funds legitimately acquired abroad, but not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia. They may be debited for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (2) the acquisition of foreign currencies either for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring, or for making payments abroad, particularly for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad, ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities; and (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. A declaration of holdings is required. Special export earn ings accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by Tunisian or for- eign na tural persons residing in Tun is ia who earn prof i ts from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident company earning profits from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be f ree ly credited with (1) 10% of the export earnings realized by the account holder and/or received from companies in wh ich he or she is a shareholder, (2) proceeds from sales on the interbank market of foreign exchange represen t ing income or revenue f rom assets acquired abroad by debiting the ac- count, and (3) interest on balances in the account. They may be f ree ly debited for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia; (2) purchases on the in te rbank market of fore ign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or o f f sp r ing; and (3) payments in connection with a current op- era t ion or to acqu i re r igh ts and interests abroad regardless of whether these are represented by secur i t ies, i n c l u d i ng related management fees. Nonresident Accounts Foreign accoun ts in conver t ib le currencies may be opened f ree ly by all nonresidents re- gardless of na t iona l i ty. These accoun ts may be credited w i th (1) receipts in convertible fore ign currenc ies (bankno tes must be declared at customs); (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account ho lder by a non res iden t; (3) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account ho lder; (4) in terest payable by the au thor ized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the f u n ds thus deposited at remunera t ive rates; (5) transfers f rom other fore ign accounts; and (6) the amount of cashed checks, trav- e le r 's checks, or d ra f ts expressed in conver t ib le currenc ies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account ho lder. All other cred i t ing requ ires prior au thor iza t ion from the CBT, e i ther d i rec t ly or by de lega t ion. These accounts may be debited free ly for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident bene- ficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) transfers to other foreign accounts. Domestic non res ident accounts may be opened f ree ly by authorized intermediaries in the name of fo re igne rs res id ing temporar i ly in Tun is ia. These accounts may be credited w i thout au thor iza t ion from the CBT with the fo l low ing: (1) transfers of funds carried out in con- vertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any k ind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular the nontransferable part of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) l iqu id assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans prev ious ly granted in dinars with funds from the account ho lder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another internal non- resident account opened in the name of the account holder. These accounts may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her fam i ly in Tunisia, (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia, (3) lend ing to residents, and (4) transfers to another inter- nal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. Special d inar accoun ts may be opened f ree ly by foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tun is ia approved by the CBT. These enterprises are authorized to open for each contract a s ing le special account in d inars, in wh ich they may deposit the portion of the contract pr ice payable in d ina rs to cover the ir local expenses. The accounts may also be credited w i th f u n ds from a fo re ign account in conver t ib le foreign currency, the d inar equ iva lent of any t rans fer in conve r t ib le fore ign currency f rom abroad, and interest accruing on funds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 990 TUNISIA deposited in the account. The account may be f ree ly debited for the en terpr ise's contract- related expenses in Tunisia. These enterprises are free to re transfer d inar equ iva len ts cred- ited to their foreign currency accounts, provided that the funds available in the account are suff ic ient to cover the transfer. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be author- ized by the CBT. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Capital accounts may be opened f ree ly in the name of a non res ident na tu ral person of for- eign na t iona l i ty or by a nonres ident ju r id i c al person. Subject to certain cond i t ions, capital accounts may be credited, w i thout the pr ior approval of the CBT, w i th the proceeds of sales on the stock exchange, or the contractual or advance redemption of transferable Tunisian securities; with the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court, or of rights to real estate situated in Tun is ia; and w i th funds f rom ano ther capital account. Irrespective of the account ho lde r 's coun t ry of residence, cap i tal accounts may be f ree ly debited for the l iv ing expenses in Tun is ia of the account ho lder and his or her fam i ly up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tun is ia between November 1 and March 31 may w i thd raw f rom the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the t r ip and surrendered to the CBT, an au thor- ized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder and his or her fam i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected w i th the man- agement of Tun is ian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and insu rance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital ac- counts are f ree ly transferable between nonresidents of foreign na t iona l i ty, with the excep- tion of juridical persons governed by pub l ic law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account ho lde r 's parents and o f fsp r ing res id ing in Tun is ia, at a max imum rate of D 50 a person a mon th. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Na tu ral and ju r id i c al persons of French or I ta l ian na t iona l i ty ho ld ing capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonres iden ts regardless of na t iona l i ty and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting u t i l iza t ion. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonres ident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, suspense accounts may be debited, w i thout the prior au thor iza t ion of the CBT, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian government or public institutions, or payment of the expenses of managing securities de- posited in a suspense f i le opened in the name of the account ho lder. They may also be deb- ited for settlement of l i v i ng expenses incurred in Tun is ia by the account ho lder and his or her fam i ly up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total w i thdrawa ls in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the fo l low ing year may w i thdraw from the account an amount equal to the fo re ign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder and his or her fam i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the off- spring or parents of the resident account ho lde r. Na tu ral and j u r i d i c al persons of French or Italian na t iona l i ty ho ld ing suspense accounts may transfer all funds in the ir accounts re- gardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Foreign accounts in convertible d inars may be opened f ree ly by all nonres iden ts regardless of na t iona l i ty. These accounts may be credited f ree ly with (1) the d inar proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the interbank market (banknotes must be declared at customs); (2) proceeds from authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (3) proceeds from the conversion of the amount of cashed checks, t rave le r 's checks, or draf ts expressed in foreign currency and made out by a non res ident to the order of the ac- count holder; (4) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (5) in terest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these accounts w i thout authorization from the CBT, granted either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any k ind in Tunisia, and (2) pur- chases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for Conver t ib le into foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 991 delivery to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers must receive a customs code. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are free, except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and cultural heritage, and are effected by an import certificate domiciled with an authorized intermediary. Goods not liberalized need an import authorization granted through the MOT. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment that are paid for by sources outside Tunisia and do not involve the payment or delivery of foreign currency may be effected by enterprises for their own use without foreign trade formalities up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services; companies established in an industrial park; and holders of permits for exploration, research, the operation of concessions in the hydrocarbons sector, or contractors or subcontractors employed by such companies may import freely, without foreign trade formalities, any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. Tunisia has signed free-trade agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, and Morocco. Goods not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cultural heritage are included in a list issued by decree. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a list of which is drawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical import controls. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the VAT and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for fu ll or partial exemption from import duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is ex- tended, payment is due w i th in 30 days of the date of shipment. Nonresident companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incen- tives Code, as well as, nonresident international trading companies and nonresident enter- prises constituted in an economic business park are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit to their professional accounts up to 50% of their foreign exchange export proceeds and the ir foreign currency loans contracted in accordance w i th existing exchange regulations. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Exports of goods covered by the l ibera l iza t ion of foreign trade must be domiciled w i th in eight days of the date of shipment. Preshipment inspection Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 992 Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes TUNISIA Most exports are free, and certain goods may be exported with an authorization issued by the MOT. Tun is ia has signed free-trade agreements w i th Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, and Morocco, providing for the liberalization of 2,000 products and for the complete phasing out of tar iff barriers between Tunisia and the three countries by December 2007. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Inves tmen t-re la ted payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers may be f ree ly effected for payments of f re igh t, storage, and warehousing ser- vices; transit and administrative fees; customs duties; commissions; and fees for analyses and controls of materials and products. Income from foreign capital invested in accordance w i th the laws and regulations in force and interest on foreign currency loans contracted by residents in accordance with the regu- lations in force may be transferred freely. Rent from real estate owned by nonresidents may be transferred freely. The annual allowance for tourist travel is D 1,000 an adult and D 500 a child under ten years of age (these amounts may be accumulated over a period of two consecutive calendar years). The business travel allowance for exporters is 15% of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 120,000. Any unused portion of this allowance may be carried forward to subsequent years, provided that the cumu la t ive amount does not exceed the annual l im it of D 120,000. At the same time, resident ind iv idua ls and corporations that have signed service or work contracts with nonresidents which can be f u l ly or par t ia l ly implemented abroad may receive a bus iness travel allowance (AVA) set at 15% of the "contracts realized abroad." Exporters may cumu la t ive ly receive th is AVA and the Exporter-AVA. The annual limit for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depend ing on the value of the previous year's imports, and the annual l im it for business travel by other professions ranges f rom D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on the previous year's turnover declared to the tax authorities. The travel allowance for promoters of new projects is a max imum of D 5,000, and is granted on ly once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the transfer of pensions. A l imony payments to the ex-spouse and ch i ld ren in a d e f i n i t i ve judgment are freely transferable. The annual allowance for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health is D 750. Persons accompany ing pa t ien ts may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. The annual settlement allowance and the monthly l iv ing expense allowances for students studying abroad are D 1,500 and D 700, respectively. Educa t ion allowances are free ly transferable up to a ce i l ing of D 6,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The l im it of D 750 for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health may be ex- ceeded if the pa t ien t 's condition requires several trips abroad du r ing the same year. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Con t rac tua l ly employed foreign na t iona ls may transfer up to 50% of the ir earnings. For foreign experts employed by the public sector, limits on transfers are specified in their con- tracts; otherwise, the restrictions for con t rac tua l ly employed foreign na t iona ls w i ll apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad On ly operators e l ig ib le for bus iness travel a l lowances are authorized to use credit cards abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 993 Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Those e l i g i b le for bus iness travel allowances may use the ir credit cards abroad on ly to the extent of th e ir t rans fer en t i t lemen ts for these allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Subsc r ip t ion fees for jou rn a ls and periodicals, membersh ip fees, and dues for foreign asso- c ia t ions and organizations; and payments for l i te ra ry and artistic rights, legal proceedings, arbitrage, and attorney fees are f ree ly transferable. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Restrictions on use of funds Residents are required to repatriate all remuneration for services rendered to nonresidents and all proceeds from inv is ib le transactions received from abroad. Res ident prov iders of services to non res iden ts may retain in the ir professional foreign cur- rency accoun ts up to 50% of the foreign currency earnings accruing from these accounts and the ir fore ign exchange borrowings contracted in accordance with the exchange regula- t ions in force. Foreign exchange deposited in profess ional accounts must be used in accordance with the ru les govern ing the operation of accounts of th is type. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. Stocks may be acquired freely with foreign exchange transferred from abroad by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stocks with voting rights and for acqu is i t ions that result in foreign ownership exceeding 50% of capital shares listed in the stock exchange and for unlisted shares, the approval of the High Investment Commission (HIC) is required. Authorization is not required from the HIC for acquisitions of Tunisian securities entailing voting rights or shares in companies established in Tunisia (1) between associates or shareholders in the same company who are foreign nationals; (2) by nonresident natural or ju r id ical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired w i th in the limit of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management activities of foreign directors in these companies. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Non r e s id en ts may sell f r e e ly shares of companies established in Tunisia. They may also t rans fer f ree ly net real proceeds f rom the sale of shares that were purchased with foreign exchange transferred f rom abroad for an inves tment made in accordance w i th the legisla- t ion in force. Purchase abroad by residents The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resi- dent exporters may transfer D 40,000 to D 200,000 annua l ly to finance equity participation in compan ies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign currency or con- ve r t ib le d ina rs or special export earnings accounts may purchase securities abroad by debit- ing these accoun ts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents The purchase by nonresident foreign nationals of debt securities issued by state or resident companies is subject to approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 994 TUNISIA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may acquire freely shares of Tunisian mu tual funds w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is requ ired if the acqu is i t ion raises the fore ign owne rsh ip to more than 50% of the mu tual f u n d 's cap i ta l. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts may transfer f ree ly net real proceeds from sales of Tun is ian mu tual fund shares acquired with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. There are controls on all transactions in der iva t ives and other ins trumen ts. Res ident banks may engage in (1) foreign currency swaps ma tur ing in up to 12 months with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, and with foreign correspondent banks; (2) foreign cur- rency/dinar swaps ma tu r ing in up to 12 months among themselves and with resident enter- prises provided that the transactions in ques t ion back actual commercial or f inanc ial trans- actions; and (3) foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps by making spot purchases and forward sales of conver t ib le d inars to non res ident banks operating in Tun is ia, foreign corre- spondent banks, and nonres ident enterprises operating in Tun is ia. For the purposes of hedg- ing against foreign exchange rate risks, resident banks may conclude fu tu re rate agreements for terms of up to 12 months with resident enterprises, w i th resident banks, and w i th non- res ident banks opera t ing in Tunisia. Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits These credits requ ire approval from the CBT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonres ident indu s t r i al enterprises established in Tun i s ia and short-term credits in d inars to f in an ce the local oper- ating expenses of nonres ident enterprises established in Tun is ia. Resident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and o ther resident enterprises may f ree ly contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l ion and D 3 m i l l ion, respectively. Resident f inanc ial institutions and other resident enterprises may f ree ly contract foreign currency f inanc ial loans from nonres iden ts up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l i on and D 3 m i l l ion, respectively. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents TUNISIA 995 Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee their obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guarantees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppliers. The issue and establishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by resi- dents are not subject to approval. At the request, and with the counterguarantee, of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection with business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. Outward direct investments by residents require approval from the CBT; however, to sup- port their export activities, exporters may free ly transfer amounts ranging f rom D 40,000 to D 200,000 a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to f inance equity participation, and D 20,000 to D 100,000 to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. Foreigners may invest free ly in most economic sectors. However, the participation of for- eigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export activities requires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investments carried out legitimately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Purchases require prior approval from the CBT, except for the transactions conducted through special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars or through special export earnings accounts in convertible dinars opened by residents. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require prior approval from the CBT. Sale locally by nonresidents Authorization is required for sales other than those made to a resident and involving real estate that is the subject of a land title. These sales are recorded in the Land Registry solely upon presentation of documentation showing that the price was deposited by the buyer to a suspense or capital account maintained in the name of the vendor in the books of a licensed intermediary. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Authorization is not required to take possession of an inheritance established in Tunisia for the benefit of a nonresident. The transfer of proceeds from gifts, endowments, and inheri- tances not previously guaranteed is subject to approval. Authorization is not required for gifts from nonresidents to residents, and for taking posses- sion of an inheritance established abroad for a resident. Proceeds from g if ts and inheri- tances must be declared and repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 996 Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. TUNISIA Transfer into the country by immigrants Nonresident Tun is ian nationals returning de f in i t ive ly to the country must declare and repa- triate the ir assets or proceeds and revenue from their holdings abroad. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Resident financial institutions may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to a l im it of D 10 m i l l i o n. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks may freely open correspondent accounts with foreign banks of their choice. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange The approval of the CBT is required for loans granted by resident banks to nonresidents. However, resident banks may freely grant loans on the foreign exchange money market to nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia for operating expenses and to fi- nance imports and exports. In addition, resident banks may extend dinar loans to offshore companies to f inance local (dinar-denominated) operational expenses. Such loans cannot be used to purchase foreign exchange and must be placed in a special account. Resident banks may freely extend credit to finance import and export operations. They may also lend the ir foreign currency surpluses to other resident banks and to their correspondent banks in exchange for loans in another currency with the same maturity. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There is no reserve requ i rement on foreign currency deposit accounts. Liquid asset requirements A l i q u i d i ty ratio requ i rement is in effect that takes foreign currency deposits into account. Interest rate controls D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Interest rates on foreign currency deposits are f ree ly negotiated between the bank and ac- count holders, except that remuneration of the foreign currency accounts of residents may not be more than a ha lf po int below the rates of remune ra t ion pub l ished by the CBT for foreign currency amoun ts above or equal to D 10,000. The d inar deposits of nonresidents are inc luded in the ca lcu la t ion of the reserve require- men ts base. Liquid asset requirements A l iqu id i ty ratio requirement is in effect that takes nonresidents' deposits into account. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Interest rates on dinar and convertible dinar deposits of nonresidents are freely negotiated, except in the case of demand accounts, on which there is a cap of 2%. The remuneration on foreign currency accounts is f ree ly negotiated with banks. D inar balances in suspense ac- counts and cap i tal accounts do not earn interest. Yes. Approval is requ ired for any acqu is i t ion of capital in a bank or other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion and, in all cases, for the acqu is i t ion of a proportion of the vo t ing rights equal to or exceed- ing 10%, as well as of any ins t rument that may result in the transfer of a significant propor- tion of the assets, po ten t ia l ly changing its financial structure or the focus of its activities. Net open pos i t ions of banks operating in the foreign exchange market resu l t ing from both spot and forward transactions are limited to 10% of banks' net equ i ty capital in each cur- rency, with a global l im it of 20% for position in all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 997 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment po r t fo l io held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Any acquisition on the stock exchange of a twentieth, tenth, f i f th, third, ha lf, or two-thirds of the capital of a company that is involved in pub l ic deposit-taking must be declared to that company, to the F inanc ial Board, and to the Secur i t ies Exchange. Exchange arrangement January 1. The exchange arrangement of Tunisia was reclassified to the category crawling peg from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The exchange rate of the Turkish lira is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) may intervene when volatile conditions de- velop in the foreign exchange market. Prior to August 1, 2002, when it was eliminated, a 0.1 % banking and insurance tax applied to interbank sales of foreign exchange against the Turkish lira. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Banks may engage in forward transactions within the framework of open position limits set according to the regulation on total net foreign exchange positions/own funds ratio and the regulations on capital adequacy. There is no limit on forward transactions of precious metal brokerage institutions. On March 1, 2002, the CBT began phasing out its intermediary func t ions in swap and for- ward transactions, but the CBT may carry out swap and forward transactions with respect to its reserve position in light of the exchange rate policy. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Certain commercial transactions with Poland are made through special accounts denomi- nated in dollars. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administer exchange controls. The Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Board (BRSB) regulates and supervises banks' open foreign exchange position and the CBT monitors banks' foreign exchange positions. In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Turkey maintains certain restrictions on the payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency TURKEY 999 Domestic purchases and sales of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by intermedi- ary ins t i tu t ions dea l ing in precious metals may be conducted only at the Istanbul Gold Ex- change ( IGE ). The purchase and sale of prec ious metals and stones or articles the re f rom may be conduc ted f ree ly w i t h in the coun try. In accordance w i th the Foreign Trade Regime, exports and imports of precious metals and stones or articles con ta in ing them may be conducted freely. Only the CBT and intermediary ins t i tu t ions dea l ing in precious metals that are members of the IGE may import unproc- essed gold w i thout be ing subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the latter must surrender the gold to the IGE w i t h in three days. Selling operations of imported gold shou ld i n i t i a l ly take place in the IGE. Banks may open gold deposit accoun ts for na tu ral and ju r id i c al en t i t ies res id ing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders should surrender processed gold to banks in order to open gold deposit accounts. W i th in the framework of the bank ing regu la t ions, banks that are members of the IGE may ex tend gold cred i ts to customers. The buy ing and se l l ing prices of gold are f ree ly deter- m ined by banks. In te rmed ia ry i n s t i t u t i o ns dea l ing in prec ious metals may ob ta in gold cred- its from abroad for the ir own account and/or for the accounts of their customers. However, gold ob ta ined as a credit shou ld be transferred to the IGE w i th in three days. Travelers may b r ing in to and take out of the coun t ry ornamental articles made f rom pre- cious metals and stones w i th a va lue not exceeding the equ iva lent of $15,000. The export of ornamen tal ar t ic les exceed ing th is va lue is dependent on the ir dec lara t ion upon arrival or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Trave lers may f ree ly take abroad up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000. Travelers may f ree ly take up to the equ iv a l ent of $5,000 out of the coun t ry. To take out more than th is amoun t, nonresidents must declare banknotes upon arrival, and residents must present a document conf irm ing that the foreign banknotes were purchased from banks and special f inance ins t i tu t ions for inv is ib le transactions. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld dome s t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1000 TURKEY Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures N eg a t ive l i st L icenses w i th quo t as Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Impor ts of cer ta in i tems are p roh ib i ted for env i ronm en t a l, security, hea l th, or pub l ic moral- ity reasons, or in accordance w i th in te rna t ional obligations. These items inc lude certain carcinogenic co lor ing substances, chemicals used in the production of chemical weapons or other arms and ammun i t ion, counterfeit labels, gambling instruments, narcotics, and ozone- depleting substances. Import licenses, which are issued by the relevant authorities, are re- qu i r ed for 12 groups of items, i n c l u d i ng te lecommun ica t ions and transmission equipment, some m a ch in e ry, some motor veh ic les, some chemicals, and a number of items related to c i v il a i rc ra f t. Impo r ts of o ld, used, renovated, fau l ty, or obsolete goods are subject to per- m iss ion from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, but certain goods that are not older than 10 years may be imported freely. Quotas are imp lemen ted as a requ i rement for the ha rmon iza t ion of Tu rkey 's import policy w i th that of the EU. Turkey has adopted the EU's quo ta policy on imports of textiles and c lo th ing products. These quotas, wh ich are not part of the EU 's global quotas, were intro- duced under Ar t ic le XIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and they are con s i s tent w i th the p rov is ions of th is ar t ic le and o ther WTO agreements on textiles and c l o t h i n g. Cu r ren t ly, tex t i les and c l o t h i ng imports from 19 countries are subject to quotas. Tu rkey has also in t roduced quotas on imports of certain products originating in China, i n c l u d i ng footwear; ceramic, ch ina, or porcelain tableware and kitchenware; and toys. E f f e c t ive J anu a ry 1, 2002, Turkey began to apply the EU 's GSP and the GSP rates that are ind ica ted in List II of the Import Regime. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, the list of goods to wh ich the GSP rates are granted to the least-developed coun tr ies was expanded to 2,884 product categories. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, in order to ensure that Turkey's market ac- cess comm i tmen ts to the WTO for the year 2002 are not in excess of the commitment lev- els specified in the Agreemen t, ta r i ff rates on the goods covered in Lists I, III, and IV an- nexed to the Impo rt Reg ime were reduced. Add i t ion a l ly, Ar t ic le 13 of the prev ious Import Reg ime Decree was abo l ished, a l low ing unres tr ic ted imports of old, used, and renovated goods up to 10 years old (p rev ious ly, spec if ied old, used, and renovated goods that were between 6 and 10 years old were subject to a Mass Housing Levy of 50% of the c.i.f. value of the goods). E f f e c t ive J a n u a ry 4, 2002, the s imp le average tariff rate for imports of indus- t r ial produc ts is 4.5%, except for those imported from EU and EFTA countries, for which the rate is zero. The s im p le average t a r i ff rate for imports of ag r icu l tu ral products is 55.7%, w h i le that for impo r ts f rom EU and EFTA coun t r ies is 54.7%. Turkey has either reduced or e l im ina ted customs t a r i f fs on imports of 556 products originating from the 50 least- developed countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requ irements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts Foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered w i th in 180 days fo l low ing the date of ship- ment to banks or special f i n a n c i al ins t i tu t ions. Exporters may retain foreign exchange re- ce ip ts f rom abroad up to the equ iv a l ent of $50,000. If at least 70% of the foreign exchange rece ip ts are su r rende red w i t h in 90 days f o l l ow i ng the date of sh ipmen t, exporters are e n t i t l ed to re ta in the r em a i n i ng 30%, wh ich they may depos it in foreign exchange accounts w i th comm e r c i al banks, keep abroad, or dispose of free ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 1001 Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspections are carried out only if the importing country requests such. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes All goods, other than those whose exportation is p roh ib i ted by law, decrees, or international agreements, may be exported free ly w i th in the framework of the Export Regime Decree. However, w i th in the framework of WTO rules, res t r ic t ions and proh ib i t ions on exports may be imposed in case of market turmoil; scarcity of the goods to be exported; public safety, morals, and health; or environmental concerns (this also applies to several varieties of flora and fauna). Restrictions and prohibitions also apply to exports of articles bearing artistic, h is tor ica l, or archaeological value. Nuts and unprocessed leather are subject to export taxes. The taxes on hazelnuts are levied in the form of deductions payable to the Support and Price Stabilization Fund at the rate of the equ iva len ts of $0.04 and $0.08 per kilogram for unshe l led and shelled hazelnuts, respectively. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Credit cards may be used on a revolving basis up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a person. Balances exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be settled w i th in 30 days. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Purchases and sales of domestic securities and other ins trumen ts by nonresidents and of foreign securities by residents may be effected f ree ly. However, all transactions in securi- ties must be carried out through banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to capital market legislation, and all related transfers must be performed through banks and special f inanc ial institutions. Residents may issue, in troduce, and sell domestic securities abroad free ly. The sale and issue of foreign securities and other instruments by nonresi- dents must be registered with the Capital Market Board. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1002 TURKEY On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. No. The maturity of commodity credits may not exceed two years for nondurable goods and f ive years for other goods. Residents may obtain freely credits from abroad, provided that they use such credits through the banks or special f inanc ial institutions. The maximum maturity of pref inanc ing credits is 18 months, except in the case of shipbuilding, where it is 24 months. Credits with a maturity of more than one year that are obtained by the public sector or guaranteed by the Treasury must be registered in the External Financing Information Sys- tem maintained by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. All other credits are monitored by the CBT for statistical purposes. Residents may free ly export capital in cash up to $5 m i l l ion or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies through banks or special financial institutions, and capital in kind within the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation for the purpose of direct investment. Permission for direct investments that require the transfer of capital in kind or in cash ex- ceeding the equivalent of $5 million is granted by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Prior approval is required from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury w i th in the framework of the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Law. The m in imum amount of capital that may be brought in by foreign investors is $50,000 or its equivalent. Proceeds may be transferred abroad freely but must be reported to the CBT. Nonresidents may not acquire real estate in military or security areas. The acquisition of real estate by nonresidents in villages is prohibited. Exceptions to this restriction may be granted by the Council of Ministers for activities in the tourism and petroleum sectors. Real estate in villages acquired by nonresidents through inheritance must be liquidated. Outside the boundaries of villages, foreign natural persons may acquire real estate on the condition of reciprocity. However, the acquisition of land exceeding 30 hectares requires the permis- sion of the Counc il of Ministers. Foreign ju r id ical persons established in Turkey may ac- qu ire real estate to conduct their business and economic activities. However, the real estate may not be used to carry out realty activities. Personal capital in cash form may be free ly transferred into and out of the country, in ac- cordance with exchange legislation. Inward and outward personal capital transfers in kind may be effected in accordance with customs and exchange legislation. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Resident banks may extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and the balances in their foreign exchange deposit accounts. Such credits may also be extended in Turkish lira. Resident banks may not extend credits in foreign exchange to residents except to those who are exporters; investors; Turkish entrepreneurs working abroad; residents who are conducting business related to international tenders held in Turkey; and residents who are conducting business related to defense industry projects that have been approved by the Undersecretariat of the Defense Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accoun ts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts TURKEY 1003 Banks and special f in an ce houses must ma in ta in requ i red reserves at the CBT against all l i a b i l i t i es (pr ior to May 10, 2002, t h is app l ied o n ly to deposits). The requ i red reserve ratio for l iab i l i t ies in local currency is 6%, and the ratio for l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies is, e f fec t ive May 10, 2002, 11%. Requ i red reserves must be he ld in special accounts with the CBT, bu t, e f fec t ive May 10, 2002, 3 percentage po in ts of reserve requ i rement rates for local and fore ign currencies may be ma in ta ined on a two-week average basis. The requ ired reserves m a in t a in ed against depos i ts in domestic currency are remunera ted; effec t ive May 24, 2002, the required reserves for nondeposit l iab i l i t ies in domestic currency and foreign exchange are remune ra ted. E f fec t ive May 10, 2002, the fo l low ing changes were made to l i q u i d i ty requirements: (1) it is based on the l iab i l i t ies used for the ca lcu la t ion of requ ired reserves; (2) the requ i rement that a m ax imum of 2% of the l i q u i d i ty requ i rement must consist of 2% of cash in vau lt in domestic and fore ign currencies was abo l ished; (3) the l i q u i d i ty requ irement ratio was re- duced to 4% from 6% for l iab i l i t ies in domestic currency and to 1% from 3% for l iab i l i t ies in fore ign exchange; and (4) the per iod for c a l cu l a t ing l i a b i l i t i es was reduced to two weeks f rom one mon th. U n t il February 15, 2002, when these requ i remen ts were e l im ina ted, the fo l low ing require- men ts app l ied to banks under l i q u i d a t i on and w i th excess foreign exchange pos i t ions: (1) deposits in local currency were subject to an 8% l iqu id i ty reserve, of which a minimum of 4% had to be he ld in government bonds, 2% deposited in the CBT, and a max imum of 2% he ld as cash in vau l t; (2) l i ab i l i t i es in local currency, other than deposits in banks, were subject to a 12% l iqu id i ty reserve, of wh ich 6% had to be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 4% he ld in government bonds, and a m ax imum of 2% as cash in vau l t; (3) foreign ex- change deposits in banks were sub ject to a 3% l iqu id i ty reserve, of wh ich a m i n im um of 1% had to be he ld in government bonds and a m ax imum of 2% as cash in vau l t; (4) foreign exchange l i a b i l i t i e s, o ther than deposits, were subject to a 14% reserve requ iremen t, of which 11% had to be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 1% in government bonds, and a m a x im um of 2% as cash in vau l t; and (5) banks were requ i red to ma in ta in a l i q u i d i ty ratio of 100% of the ir open pos i t ion in Turkish l i ra at the CBT. The open ing of branches or represen ta t ive o f f ices abroad by banks founded in Turkey is subject to the permission of the BRSB. Likewise, the open ing of a company abroad by banks, or banks' pa r t ic ipa t ion in a p rev iou s ly established company abroad, requ ires the permission of the BRSB. Banks that fail to meet the standard ratios according to the Banks Act may not acqu i re new shares in partnerships. Any a c q u i s i t i on of shares whe reby the cap i tal shares he ld by one person exceed 10%, 20%, 33%, or 50% of the capital of the bank, and any t rans fer of shares whereby the capital shares he ld by one person fa ll below these l im i ts are subject to p r ior permission of the BRSB. Transactions that resu lt in reduc ing the number of shareholders to less than f ive, or in shares being assigned w i thout permission, may not be registered. These rules are valid for the a cqu i s i t ion of vo t ing r igh ts and p ledg ing of shares. The ass ignment of p re fe ren t ial shares requ i res BRSB approval, irrespective of the above l im i ts. In the app l ica t ion of these regu la t ions, no d i s t in c t ion is drawn between res iden ts and nonresidents. All fore ign exchange-indexed assets and l i a b i l i t i es have to be taken in to account f u l ly as fo re ign assets and fo re ign l i ab i l i t i e s. The ra t io of the total net fore ign exchange pos i t ion to own funds is 20%. Banks are required to calculate foreign exchange exposure limits on a conso l ida ted basis. E f fec t ive February 1, 2002, the regu la t ions on foreign exchange posi- t i on r isk were amended to ensu re that there is a ba lance between banks' fore ign exchange assets and l i a b i l i t i es and that banks ma in ta in fore ign exchange positions that are in l ine w i th t h e ir own fund s. The ra t io between net fore ign exchange pos i t ion and own funds must be ±20% (if the ratio exceeds th is l im i t, the BRSB w i ll return it to the ±20% level w i th in s ix mon ths ). Th is l im it is the same as that s t ipu la ted by the p rev ious regu la t ion, except that net fo re ign exchange po s i t ion is now compared to own funds instead of cap i tal base. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1004 TURKEY d e f i n i t i on of own f u n ds is provided in the D irec t ive on Establishment and Operations of Banks, and covers the sum core capital and supp lemen tary capital from which some items are deduc ted. The same d e f i n i t i on is used in the capital adequacy ratio. The provisions of these r egu l a t ions are also app l ied to special f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions. In accordance w i th the Insu rance Superv is ion Law, insu rance companies may invest the ir techn ical p rov is ions on ly loca l ly. For pens ion fund s, foreign secur i t ies may not exceed 15% of por tfo l io. Prov is ions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ional investors L im i ts (max .) on secu r i t ies issued by non r e s id en ts L im i ts (max .) on inv e s tm ent po r t fo l io h e ld abroad Yes. L im i ts (m in .) on inves tment po r t fo l io h e ld l o c a l ly For pension funds, pub l ic debt instruments must be at least 30% of their portfolios. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions P r o v i s i o ns spec i f ic to comme rc ial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Changes During 2002 March 1. The CBT began phasing out its in termed iary func t ions in swap and forward trans- ac t ions, but the CBT may carry out swap and forward transactions with respect to its re- serve pos i t ion in l ight of the exchange rate policy. August 1. The 0 .1% bank ing and insurance tax app ly ing to sales of foreign exchange aga inst Tu rk i sh l i ra was e l im in a t ed. January 1. Tariff rates for the goods covered in Lists I, III, and IV annexed to the Import Regime were reduced. Add i t ion a l ly, Ar t ic le 13 of the prev ious Import Regime Decree was abo l ished, a l low ing unrestricted imports of old, used, and renovated goods up to 10 years old (p rev ious ly, specified o ld, used, and renovated goods that were between 6 and 10 years old were subject to a Mass Hou s ing Levy of 50% of the c .i .f. va lue of the goods). January 1. Tu rkey began to apply the EU 's GSP and the GSP rates that are indicated in List II of the Import Regime. January 4. The s imp le average ta r i ff rate for imports of indus tr ial products was set at 4.5%, except for impor ts from EU and EFTA coun t r ies, for wh ich the rate was zero. February 1. The requ i red ratio between net foreign exchange position and own funds was set at ±20% (previously, the ca lcu la t ion was between net foreign exchange position and cap i tal base). February 15. Banks under l iqu id a t ion and with excess foreign exchange positions were no longer sub ject to l i q u i d i ty requ i remen t s. May 10. The f o l l ow i ng changes were made regarding reserve requ iremen ts for accounts denom ina ted in fo re ign currenc ies: (1) in addition to deposits, other l iab i l i t ies were in- c luded in l i a b i l i t i es sub ject to reserve requ i remen t s; (2) the period for ca lcu la t ion, mainte- nance, and repo r t ing for requ ired reserves was extended two weeks; (3) 3 percentage points of the reserve requ i rement ra t io for l i a b i l i t i es in domestic and foreign currencies were per- m i t ted to be m a in t a in ed as two-week averages; and (4) the reserve requ irement ratio for l i a b i l i t i es in foreign currencies was set at 11%. May JO. The f o l l ow i ng changes were made regard ing the l i q u i d i ty requ i remen ts for ac- coun ts denom ina ted in fore ign currency: (1) the l i q u i d i ty requ irement wou ld be based on the l i a b i l i t i es used for the ca lcu la t ion of requ i red reserves; (2) the requ irement that a maxi- mum of 2% of the l i q u i d i ty r equ i r em ent must consist of 2% of cash in vau lt in domestic and fore ign currenc ies was abo l ished; (3) the l iqu id i ty requ i rement ratio was reduced to 4% f rom 6% for l i a b i l i t i es in domestic currency and to 1% f rom 3% for l i ab i l i t i es in foreign exchange; and (4) the period for c a l cu l a t ing l i a b i l i t i es was reduced to two weeks from one mon th. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 1005 May 24. The requ i red reserves for nondepos it l iab i l i t ies and foreign exchange l i ab i l i t i es cou ld be remunera ted. Imports and import payments January 1. The GSP granted to the least-developed countries was extended to 2,884 prod- uct categories. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Tu rkmen is tan is the Turkmen manat. Exchange rate structure Dua l. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The o f f i c i al (cash and nonca sh) exchange rate is de term ined at a w e ek ly auc t ion conducted by the Central Bank of Tu rkmen is tan (CBT), in w h i ch au thor ized commerc ial banks par- ticipate. The o f f ic ial rate is manat 5,200 per $1. Access to the foreign exchange auction is l im i ted to au thor ized banks, and bids are screened by the CBT and the Foreign Currency Comm i t tee (FCC). Banks par t ic ipa te in the auc t ions on behalf of the ir customers and for transactions approved by the CBT and the FCC. Bids are submitted at the rate established in the p rev ious auc t ion; if demand exceeds the foreign exchange supp l ied by the CBT, the excess demand is shifted to the next session. The commercial banks' cash foreign exchange w indow is open for purchases of foreign exchange for a list of specified transactions. Exchange taxes of 50% and 30% are levied on cash receipts from exports of na tural gas and o il and pe t ro leum produc ts, respectively. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of fo re ign exchange among residents Payments arrangements B i la te ral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Barter agreements and open accoun ts Adm in istrat ion of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Se t t lemen ts w i th Russ ia and a few o ther coun t r ies of the FSU are made th rough a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich Turkmenistan has bilateral payments arrangements are effec ted in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in these agreements. Bar ter t r an s a c t ion s, o ther than n a tu r al gas exports, must take place th rough the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are conducted in conve r t ib le currenc ies. Yes. Yes. Yes. B i la te ral agreements w i th Ma lays ia and the I s lam ic R e p u b l ic of Iran are inope ra t ive. There are barter trade agreements for n a tu r al gas exports to the Is lam ic R epub l ic of Iran and for oil exports to Ukraine. There are also agreements w i th Kazakhstan and Tajikistan for e lec t r ic i ty exports. The CBT, a long w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy and F inance (MEF) and the FCC, is em- powered to issue exchange control r egu l a t ion s, depend ing on the type of operation in- volved. The use of o f f ic ial foreign exchange reserves is controlled to a large extent by the p res ident of Tu rkmen i s tan. 1006 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 1007 International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Domestic and foreign banknotes may be exported and imported freely, provided funds are declared on arrival and departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with local commercial banks. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval requ ired Blocked accounts These accounts may be opened and maintained by ju r id ical persons if the holder possesses a certificate of registration issued by the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president of Turkmenistan; the authorized bank determines the amount and currency de- nomination of interest payable on these accounts. All external payments made from these accounts must be approved by the CBT; however, cash withdrawals in foreign currency may be made w i thout the approval of the CBT. Yes. With the permission of the CBT, Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad for the duration of the ir foreign residence. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are e l ig ib le to hold these accounts. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1008 TURKMENISTAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of goods on a small negative list (arms, narcotics, antiques) are prohibited. Ap- proval of the president or the Cabinet of Ministers (CM) is required to import these goods. Excise taxes are levied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewelry, and cars. Goods in tran- sit are exempt. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of cred it Export licenses W i th quo tas Export taxes Taxes co l lec ted t h r o u gh the exchange system The private sector and joint-venture enterprises are exempt from surrender requirements, as are pub l ic enterprises in the cotton sector. Surrender requirements for other enterprises are 50%, all of which is to be remitted to the CBT. The natural gas sector, however, is subject to a surrender requirement of 25% in addition to the 50% tax. n.a. Yes. All exports, except natural gas, are to be channeled through the Stock Commodity Exchange. Quan t i ta t ive and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supplies. Yes. There is a 50% fore ign exchange tax on na tural gas and a 30% tax on oil and petroleum produc ts. Also, 0.01% of the va lue of licensed products paid for w i th convertible currencies is collected as a fee. The fee on exports to the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU is 0 .1% of the rub le va lue of the licensed product. The customs department also charges an adm in is tra t ion fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments requ i re pr ior approval of the exchange control authorities. All foreign ex- change transactions invo lv ing extrabudgetary funds require the endorsement of the head of the fund in question, the chairman of the CBT, and the president of Turkmenistan. Foreign exchange for a few inv is ib le payments —medical treatment abroad; educational support for s tuden ts abroad; o f f ic ial travel by pub l ic officers; and travel abroad due to the death of immediate relatives —is available at the commercial banks' cash foreign exchange window. Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 1009 Inves tmen t - re la ted paymen ts A f t er the payment of taxes, p ro f i ts may be re inve s ted in T u r km e n i s t a n, he ld in bank ac- coun ts in domestic or other currencies, or transferred abroad. In fo rma t ion is not ava i lab le on the payment of amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of d i rect inves tmen ts. Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds mu st be sold to commerc ial banks, except for the re ta ined portion a l lowed in the case of en terpr ises. Banks are r equ i r ed to rese ll to the CBT at the auc t ion rate all fore ign exchange received f rom customers. Restrictions on use of funds n .a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Both inward and ou twa rd cap i tal transfers are sub ject to CBT approval. The non res iden ts' share in the equ i ty of a res ident company is l im i ted to 49%. Non res iden ts may pu rcha se on ly registered shares. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts These transac t ions are subject to quotas and l i c en s ing by the CM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quotas and l icen s ing by the CM. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quotas and l icen s ing by the CM. On money market ins trumen ts These transactions are subject to quotas and l icens ing by the CM. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Markets for transac t ions in derivatives do not exist. A CBT l icen se or its app roval is requ i red for res iden ts. Non r e s id en ts need o n ly CBT ap- p rova l. Commercial cred i ts By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1010 TURKMENISTAN To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial c red i ts By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward d irect inves tment Inward direct inve s tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inves tmen ts by j u r i d i c al persons are perm i t ted, in p r in c ip l e, in a ll sectors. Inves tors are requ i red to ob ta in an au tho r iza t ion from the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president of Turkmen is tan. If the amount exceeds $500,000 or its equ iva len t, the ap- proval of the CM is requ i red. Foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion in jo in t-s tock companies is l im i ted to 49%. Foreign investors have the r ight to recover inves tmen ts w i t h in six mon ths of l iqu ida t ion. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A CBT l icense is requ i red. Prov ided the l icense is granted, no con tro ls app ly to i n d i v i d u al transactions. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The CBT's short- and long-term investments abroad and their share in a company's total gross fo re ign assets r e q u i re approval of the pres ident of Tu rkmen i s tan. For o ther inves t- ments, a CBT and/or an MEF l icense is requ i red, depend ing on the type of i n s t i t u t i o n al investors. Other controls imposed by securities laws I n s t i t u t i o n al investors are requ i red to meet m i n im um cap i tal requ i remen t s. R e spon s ib i l i ty rests w i th the CM, the CBT, and/or the MEF, depend ing on the type of investors. Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda sh i l l ing. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external value of the Uganda sh i l l ing is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain transactions may be effected in exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at free ly negotiated rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may deal with customers in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, inc lud ing those for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda sh i l l ings to the credit of a nonresident account in Uganda or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Trade and payments agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Under the terms of the East African Cooperation Agreement, the Uganda, Kenya, and Tan- zania sh i l l ings are now free ly convertible in the three countries. Excess holdings of Kenya and/or Tanzania shillings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in dollars. Uganda ma in ta ins clearing arrangements with Bu rund i, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in dollars with COMESA member countries through the COMESA clearinghouse. Residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary au thor i t ies settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. The BOU has delegated a broad range of responsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regu la t ions are administered by the Ministry of Tour- ism, Trade, and Indus t ry (MTTI). International security restrictions Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Transactions are not allowed with countries subject to UN sanctions. Payments arrears Official Private Arrears are no rma l ly paid in the currency in wh ich the loan was denominated, although, the government may negotiate a new payment arrangement with the creditor. Yes. Yes. 1011 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1012 UGANDA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Con tro ls on domestic owne rsh ip and /or trade Con tro ls on external trade Residents may ho ld and acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only monetary au- thor i t ies and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry. Dealing in gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requ ires licenses issued by the M in is try of Energy and Mineral Development. On the basis of these licenses, the MTTI issues export and import permits. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res iden ts are free to open accounts in domestic or fore ign currency locally or abroad. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Nonres iden ts are free to open and maintain domestic or foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. No blocked accounts cu r ren t ly exist; however, an account may be blocked if required by law. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of firearms, pornographic materials, tires, and goods banned under international agreements to which Uganda is a signatory are prohibited. Customs du t ies on goods imported from countries outside the COMES A are zero, 7%, and 15%. For COMESA members, they are zero, 4%, and 6%. The rate for machinery is zero, and du t ies for intermediate goods and raw materials range up to 7%. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 1013 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale locally by non res iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Leases on land granted to non-Ugandan persons, irrespective of the ir residency status, may not exceed 99 years. Yes. No. Account balances may not exceed 25% of total capital, and the f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion should have a good credit rating. BOU approval is requ i red for any lend ing exceeding 25% of core capital, Only short-term lend ing is permitted, and it may not exceed in aggregate 80% of a bank's to tal fore ign cu r rency deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1014 UGANDA D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks must maintain with the BOU unremunerated cash reserves of 9% against time depos- its and 10% against demand deposits. These requirements apply to deposits in both domes- tic and foreign currencies and are in addition to liquidity requirements. Liquid asset requirements There are requirements of 20% against demand deposits and of 15% on time and savings deposits. These are applied to both domestic and foreign currency accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to maintain an open position equivalent to 25% of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of March 31, 2003) Article V I II Date of acceptance: September 24, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ukra ine is the Ukra in ian h ryvn ia. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The Na t ional Bank of Ukra ine (NBU) sets the o f f i c i al exchange rate of the hryvn ia against the do l lar on the basis of exchange quo ta t ions on the Ukra in ian in terbank market. The NBU in tervenes regu la r ly to l im it f lu c tu a t ions in the exchange rate. As the hryvnia has remained constant w i th in a very narrow band vis-a-vis the do l lar s ince the end of 2001, the exchange arrangement of Uk ra ine has been rec lass if ied, e f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, to the category conven t ional pegged arrangement f rom the category managed f loa t ing with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate. The o f f i c i al exchange rate is used by res iden ts and nonres iden ts to account for foreign ex- change transac t ions, as well as in other transactions provided for by leg is la t ion. E f fec t ive March 14, 2003, a 5% l im it on commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions was e l im ina ted. Effec t ive December 26, 2002, the 1% tax ju r id ical and na tu ral persons had to pay on pur- chases of fore ign currencies to fund the state pens ion insu rance was abolished. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all coun tr ies are settled in foreign currencies. Settlements for trade other than that w i th CIS and Baltic coun tr ies are made either in foreign or domestic currencies. Res iden ts may transact w i th non res iden ts in hryvn ias th rough h ryvn ia correspondent ac- counts opened with authorized Ukrainian banks by nonresident banks, but they must pro- v ide the serv ic ing bank w i th a certificate from the State Tax Adm in is t ra t ion of Ukraine (STA) showing that no tax l iab i l i t ies are ou ts tand ing on the date of the transaction. An NBU l icense is requ i red if the due date for the de l ive ry of imported goods or of proceeds from exports exceeds 90 days. For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Transactions in derivatives and other ins trumen ts In certain instances, authorization is required from the State Securities and Stock Market Comm iss ion. Credit operations Commercial c red i ts in h ryvn ias are allowed to economic agents of CIS and Ba l t ic coun t r ies on ly. An NBU l icense is requ i red for credits w i th ma tu r i t ies exceeding 90 days. Use of fore ign exchange among residents An NBU l icense is r equ i r ed, 1015 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1016 UKRAINE Payments arrangements B i la teral payments arrangements Inoperative There are arrangements w i th the Ba l t ic countries, Russia, and the other FSU countries. Reg ional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accoun ts Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Barter is one of the forms of trade for Uk ra in ian companies in the ir transactions, used la rge ly w i th the Baltic coun tr ies, Russ ia, and other countries of the FSU. The use of barter in fore ign trade transac t ions is p roh ib i ted for a group of goods determined by the Ukrainian Cab inet of M in is te rs. The NBU, au tho r ized banks, the STA, the State Customs Service, the State Committee of Commun i c a t ion s, and the M in i s t ry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine adm in i s ter exchange con tro ls. Res t r ic t ions are ma in ta ined on payments and on the prov is ion of f i n a n c i al services to Eri- trea, E th iop ia, Iraq, the Ta l iban, and the UNITA movement in Ango la. Payments arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Con tro ls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Res iden ts are requ i red to obtain a license f rom the MOF to deal in prec ious stones and me ta ls, except for bank metals. The NBU licenses commercial bank transactions in bank metals. Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the M in i s t ry of Economy and European In tegra t ion in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF. Ind iv idual l icenses to purchase and export bank metals are issued by the NBU. The NBU issues im- port permits for bank metals. Res iden ts and non res ident na tu ral persons may export up to HRV 1,000 upon oral declara- t ion and up to HRV 10,000 w i th manda tory customs declaration, which should include j u b i l ee and commemorative coins made f rom prec ious and nonprecious metals. An ind iv id- ual NBU l icense is requ ired for exports above these l im i ts. Resident ju r id ical persons pos- sessing, leasing, or cha r te r ing transportation fac i l i t ies may export up to HRV 3,000 through designated persons aboard the transportation fac i l i ty, subject to mandatory customs declara- t ion. They may also export proceeds received, if accompanied by supporting cashier docu- ments. Nonresident ju r id ical persons must obtain an individual NBU license. Exports of the fo l low ing r e q u i re a w r i t ten customs dec lara t ion: (1) monetary ins trumen ts in accordance w i th ce r t i f ica tes f rom an au thor ized bank for export of foreign currency from Uk ra ine; (2) cash w i t h d r awn from an account or purchased from a bank or exchange bureau (app l icab le to fore ign currency in Groups 2 and 3 of the NBU foreign currency nomencla- tu re only), t rave le r 's checks purchased from a bank, or a Visa travel money card; (3) up to 100 grams of b ank metals in the form of ingots; and (4) checks issued by foreign banks and nonb ank ing i n s t i t u t i o ns (applicable to nonres ident na tural persons). An ind iv idual NBU l icense is requ i red above these l im i ts. N a tu r al persons in trans it are allowed to export monetary ins t rumen ts up to $30,000 or its equ iva lent and bank metals up to 1,000 grams, provided that they previously imported the amoun ts and subject to documen ta ry evidence of the trans it na tu re of the travel. E f f e c t ive Feb rua ry 28, 2003, res ident na tu ral persons trave l ing on o f f ic ial bus iness and non r e s id ent n a tu r al persons may export up to the equ iva lent of $1,000 in cash and/or trav- e le r 's checks upon oral dec lara t ion. Exports of the fo l low ing requ i re a wr i t ten customs dec la ra t ion: (1) fore ign currenc ies and checks p rev iou s ly imported lega l ly in to Ukraine; (2) up to the equ iv a l ent of $10,000 in cash and/or t rave le r 's checks in accordance w i th ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency UKRAINE 1017 a ce r t i f ica te f rom an authorized Ukrainian bank; and (3) for nonresident natural persons, checks that were imported or sent into Ukraine. For resident ju r id ical persons, exports of the fo l low ing requ ire a certificate from an author- ized Ukrainian bank and a written customs declaration: (1) up to the equivalent of $1,000 to provide for transportation expenses; (2) up to the equivalent of $2,000 to pay for automo- b i le travel expenses; and (3) up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 to pay for air transportation and ferry expenses. An ind iv idu al NBU license is required for amounts exceeding these l im i ts. The captain of a vessel be long ing to or chartered by a nonres ident is allowed to ex- port foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) to pay for operating expenses and crew services, as specified by the vessel owner. For nonres ident ju r id ical persons, all exports of foreign currency requ ire an NBU license. Resident and nonresident natural persons are permitted to import domestic currency up to HRV 1,000 upon oral dec la ra t ion; a written customs declaration is required for amounts in excess of HRV 1,000 and the permission to import is granted by the NBU provided that the currency was previously exported from Ukraine. Resident jur id ical persons may import up to HRV 3,000 with written customs declaration, as well as proceeds received abroad if accompanied by supporting cashier documents. Non- resident ju r id ical persons requ ire an ind iv idual NBU license. Resident na tu ral persons are allowed to import up to the equ iva lent of $3,000, and nonresi- dents, up to the equivalent of $ 1,000, in cash and/or checks issued by foreign banks upon oral dec lara t ion. Imports of the fo l low ing requ ire a wr i t ten customs declaration: (1) re- sources p rev ious ly exported lega l ly from Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash; (3) up to the equivalent of $50,000 in checks issued by foreign banks and nonbanking ins t i tu t ions; and (4) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots. Authorization of the NBU is requ i red above these limits. Na tu ral persons in trans it may import up to the equ iva lent of $30,000 in monetary ins t ru- ments and up to 1,000 grams of bank metals, subject to documentary evidence of the transit na ture of the travel. Resident ju r id ical persons are permitted to import foreign currencies and bank metals upon written customs declaration, provided that the amounts were previ- ously exported legally; additional amounts require supporting cashier documents. Nonresi- dent ju r id i c al persons own ing, leasing, or chartering transportation fac i l i t ies are allowed to import foreign currenc ies up to the equ iva lent of $50,000 upon written declaration. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Approval required Certain cond i t ions apply to these accounts. A l icense from the NBU is requ ired, except when the account is opened du r ing a temporary stay abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Funds on these accounts may be used to purchase foreign exchange in cases where an obli- ga t ion to a nonres ident exists. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Res ident j u r i d i c al persons of Armen ia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, the Russian Federation, and Uzbekistan who open accounts with authorized Ukrainian banks must have approval from the ir respective central banks to open an account in Ukraine. Res ident na tu ral persons of Belarus-, Kazakhstan, Moldova, and the Russian Federation are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1018 UKRAINE required to have approval from their country's central bank in order to open accounts in Ukraine, except dur ing a temporary stay on the territory of Ukraine (for the purposes of study, medical treatment, or employment). Resident natural persons of Uzbekistan must have approval from their central bank to open any account in Ukraine. A nonresident investor may credit a foreign currency account with the fo l low ing: (1) funds transferred from abroad for domestic investments; (2) income (dividends) received by a nonresident investor from domestic investment activities, inc lud ing those from un incor- porated jo int activities and from transactions in securities; and (3) funds returned as a result of the termination of a nonresident domestic investment activity. Nonresident investors may debit foreign currency accounts for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) domestic investment activities ( inc lud ing reinvestments); (2) settlements with customs authorities in cases provided for by current legislation; (3) transfers abroad of income (dividends) received from domestic investment activities and of investments in the event of termination; and (4) payments for services of an authorized bank servicing an account (via procedures specified by current legislation). Funds may be credited to and debited from accounts opened to support ac t iv i t ies, such as cooperative production and other jo int activities with the participation of unincorporated nonresident investors, exclusively for purposes prescribed by agreements (contracts) on jo int investment activity, inc lud ing distribution of income between parties to an arrange- ment (contract) with consideration for requirements of current Ukrainian legislation. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident investors may credit domestic currency accounts at an authorized bank with the following: (1) funds obtained from sales of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange that have been received from a foreign investment; (2) funds received as income (dividends) from domestic investment activity, inc lud ing from unincorporated jo int activities and from transactions with securities; (3) funds received as a result of the termi- nation of a nonresident domestic investment activity; and (4) funds received from other transactions specified by current legislation. A nonresident investor may debit a domestic currency account only for the fo l low ing pur- poses: (1) reinvestments in Ukraine; (2) acquisition of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange for subsequent transfer abroad of income and d iv idends from domestic investment activities; (3) settlements with customs, tax, and other authorities in cases provided for by current legislation; (4) settlements with residents in jo int investment activities in compliance with the requirements of current legislation; (5) payments for ser- vices of an authorized bank servicing an account (via procedures specified by current legis- lation); and (6) other payments that are prescribed by investment agreements (arrange- ments, contracts) and that do not conf l ict with current legislation. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign company, firm, or international organization established w i thout the status of a legal entity, th rough wh ich a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. P accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from current transactions from any economic activity in Ukraine. "N" accounts may be opened for o f f ic ial representative off ices and representative offices of nonresident legal entities that represent their interests in Ukraine but do not engage in en- trepreneurial activities in the territory of Ukraine; representative offices of foreign banks; and organizations or ins t i tu t ions (program or project administration groups) that implement international or technical assistance programs and projects. The holders of N accounts are regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as resi- dents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited with funds by selling foreign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlements associated with the maintenance of the representative off ice, inc lud ing embassies and consulates; for purposes stipulated by the charter of the international organization; or for an organization or ins t i tu t ion (program or project administration group) to introduce international assistance programs and projects or international assistance. All N account holders may purchase foreign exchange on the in- terbank currency market to transfer funds abroad to the account of the relevant body whose interests they represent, inc lud ing interest accrued on the balance in the account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Convertible into foreign currency UKRAINE 1019 P account holders may (1) convert and transfer to a nonresident legal person (which they represent) the proceeds from transac t ions effected in Ukra ine for the sale of goods and services, interest accrued on deposit accoun ts and balances in such a type P account, and the ba lance in an account when ceasing activities in Ukraine; and (2) credit to their own account in fore ign currency funds designated for labor compensation of nonresident em- ployees and for bus iness trips and representative o f f ice expenses abroad. Holders of N ac- coun ts may use funds from these accounts to purchase foreign currencies on the Ukrainian in te rbank currency exchange for the purpose of transferr ing them to (1) the account of the appropriate authority of a foreign state or the account of the nonresident juridical person whose interests are represented in Ukraine by the mission (transfers may also be made in the event of term ina t ion of the m iss ion 's ac t iv i t ies, as confirmed by the appropriate docu- ments); or (2) the ir own fo re ign currency account w i th an authorized bank for compensa- t ion of work performed by nonres ident employees, for bus iness travel, and for entertain- ment expenses abroad. Non res ident na tural persons may convert and t rans fer abroad funds f rom hryvnia- denominated accounts. Approval requ ired Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports To purchase fore ign cu r rency in G roup 1 of the NBU fore ign currency nomenc la tu re on the Uk ra in ian in te rbank currency exchange and transfer it abroad to pay for imports, residents must provide the bank w i th pertinent import contracts. In addition, when a contract exceeds $10,000 (e f fec t ive J u ly 31, 2002) a res ident needs to obtain a cer t if ica te f rom the STA con- f i rm ing in fo rma t ion on the res iden t's bank account and registration as a taxpayer and the amount of the contract. A ce r t i f ica te from the STA is also requ ired to transfer any foreign currency to accounts of nonresidents registered in offshore zones. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Yes. Presh ipment inspec t ion Inspec t ion is not manda tory but may be unde r taken by the Ukra in ian Chamber of Com- merce and Indu s t ry at the request of nonres iden ts. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Non t a r i ff measures are l im i t ed to those carried out for na t ional safety and env ironmen tal reasons. There are three customs d u ty categories w i th a trade-weighted average rate of about 5% ( inc lud ing energy imports). The first category (preferred duty rate) applies to goods from coun t r ies w i th wh ich Ukra ine has a free-trade agreement, imports from deve lop ing coun- tr ies, and impor ts from coun t r ies that have a p re fe ren t ial agreement w i th Ukraine. The sec- ond category (concessional du ty rate) applies to imports from countries that have entered in to MFN agreements w i th Uk ra ine. The th i rd category app l ies to imports from o ther coun t r ie s. A VAT of 20% is lev ied on most imports, and some imports are subject to excise taxes. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1020 UKRAINE Repatriation requirements Su r render r equ i r em en ts Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must repatriate all foreign exchange proceeds through domestic commercial banks w i t h in 90 days of sh ipmen t. An NBU license is required if the repatriation period for export proceeds exceeds 90 days. There is a 50% surrender requ irement for resident ju r id ical persons with respect to foreign currency in G roup 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenclature. E f fec t ive September 9, 2002, t h is requ irement was extended to na tu ral persons. Proceeds must be channeled for sale th rough the Ukrainian in te rbank currency exchange. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements P resh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i th quo tas Inspec t ion is not manda tory but may be undertaken by the Ukrainian Chamber of Com- merce and Indu s t ry at the request of residents. Goods subject to vo lun ta ry export restraints or other in terna t ional agreements and those f a l l i ng under the "special export regime" —coal, precious metal scrap, and alcoholic bever- ages —are also subject to export quo tas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, f ree ly prov ided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, sales must take place through the agricultural commodity exchange. Export contract prereg- is tra t ion is l im i ted to goods subject to vo lun ta ry export restraints or an t idump ing actions. Reg is t ra t ion of exports is au toma t ic and for statistical purposes only. Export taxes Taxes are app l ied to exports of sun f lower seeds, livestock, skins, and hides. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Inves tmen t-re la ted paymen ts Payments for travel Quantitative limits A non re s ident requ i res a ce r t i f ica te from the STA stating that there are no ou ts tand ing tax l i a b i l i t i es associated w i th the unde r ly ing transaction. Income f rom domestic inves tmen ts may be transferred abroad w i thout restriction upon con f i rma t ion and payment of taxes due. Res ident and non res ident na tu ral persons leaving as tourists and on personal business are a l lowed to export up to the equ iva lent of $1,000 in cash or trave ler's checks upon oral dec- la ra t ion. A wr i t ten customs dec lara t ion is requ ired for exports of (1) foreign currency, checks, and bank metals p rev iou s ly imported lega l ly in to Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $5,000 in cash form accompanied by a cer t if ica te from an authorized Ukrainian bank and drawn f rom an account or purchased f rom a bank te l ler (on ly for resident natural persons), in t rave le r 's checks, or as a Visa travel money card; (3) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots; and (4) for nonresident natural persons, checks issued by foreign banks and n o n b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i o n s. An i n d i v i d u al NBU license is required for export of resources exceed ing these l im i t s. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Res ident n a tu r al persons may f ree ly t rans fer foreign cu r rency abroad for current noncom- merc ial transac t ions as de f ined in current legislation. Depend ing on the purpose of the transfer, transfers in excess of established norms requ ire an NBU l icense. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Cred it card use abroad Res iden ts may use abroad cards issued by Uk ra in ian banks. O ther paymen ts Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 1021 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds, except those of a few organ iza t ions w i th international operations, such as the na t ional a i r l ines (i.e., those enterprises licensed by the NBU to open and use some funds f rom an account abroad for the ir ma in tenance), are subject to repatriation requirements. E f fec t ive September 9, 2002, f i f ty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies listed in Group 1 of the NBU 's foreign currency nomenclature must be surrendered and sold in the in te rbank market. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be registered. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be transacted in Ukraine once they have been registered with the State Secur i t ies and Stock Market Commission. Foreign securities offered for transactions in Ukraine must be placed w i th a depository in the country of the ir o r ig in. Foreign securi- ties offered for transaction in Ukraine must be listed on the stock exchange, or they must be cleared for transac t ion in the t rad ing in fo rma t ion system in the country of the ir o r ig in and be listed with one of the fo l low ing stock exchanges: the American Stock Exchange, the F r ank fu rt Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, or the London Stock Ex- change. Persons offer ing foreign securities for sale in Ukraine must provide Ukrainian in- vestors w i th the oppo r tun i ty to inspect the issuance prospectus and the issuer's report for the most recent f iscal year. Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be registered. Authorized banks acquire bonds on instructions of nonresi- den ts at auc t ions conduc ted by the NBU. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing shares and o ther secur i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re apply. Purchase abroad by res iden ts An NBU l icense is requ i red. Sale or issue abroad by residents A res ident issuer may p lace secu r i t ies ou ts ide Uk ra ine upon receipt of the appropriate per- mit from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. On money market ins trumen ts The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regu la t ions governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other similar instruments. Effective December 1 1, 2002, t ransac t ions in fore ign currenc ies in G roup 1 of the NBU foreign ex- change nom en c l a tu re und er the terms of a forward contract are permitted for the purposes of hedg ing the risks of exchange rate f luc tua t ions, provided that the economic agent has a con tract w i th a fo re ign en t i ty. Transac t ions w i th other fo re ign currency derivatives for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1022 UKRAINE wh ich the und e r ly ing asset is a foreign currency in G roup 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenc la ture (such as fu tu res and options) are prohibited. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is requ i red if the repayment dead l ine exceeds 90 days. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents An NBU license and written permission are requ ired for banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies E f fec t ive February 12, 2003, na tural persons are permitted to obtain credits from nonresi- dents af ter reg is ter ing with the NBU. Such reg is tra t ion is not required for commercial banks if the credits have a ma tu r i ty of one year or less. By residents to nonresidents These transactions requ ire a license and wr i t ten permission from the NBU. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Direct investments by residents abroad (including resident acquisitions of foreign securities in Ukraine and abroad) are subject to ind iv idual NBU licenses. The acqu is i t ion of foreign securities by a resident is considered a por tfo l io investment and requires an NBU license. A cqu i s i t ions of interest in a Ukra in ian enterprise ( inc lud ing th rough the acqu is i t ion of secu- r i t ies) by nonres ident investors must be registered w i th in three days after the investments are under taken. Registration of foreign investments is administered by the Counc il of Min- isters of the Au tonomous Crimean Repub l ic and by state adm in is tra t ions of the oblasts and of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. Foreign investments in Ukraine may be undertaken in any currency listed in Group 1 of the NBU foreign exchange nomenclature. Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are re- quired in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities requ i re a license from the MOF, and investments in the bank ing sector requ ire a license from the NBU. The t rans fer of proceeds, after payment of taxes due, is not restricted. These transactions are considered foreign direct investments abroad and are subject to an NBU license. Acqu i s i t ions and term ina t ions of property rights are determined by the coun- try in wh ich the property is located. Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts These transac t ions are considered domestic capital investments by nonresidents and must be registered as direct investments. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required. To residents from nonresidents These loan agreements must be registered w i th the NBU. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 1023 To residents from nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Loan agreements exceeding one year require registration with the NBU. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A license and written permission from the NBU are required, Lending locally in foreign exchange A license and written permission from the NBU are required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks D ifferent reserve requirements apply to deposits, depending on the type and currency of the funds. An NBU license is required. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are set in accordance with standards established by the NBU. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment por tfo l io held locally Diversified mutual funds are prohibited from (1) acquiring or investing additionally in shares and bonds of foreign issuers cleared for trading on organized stock exchanges of foreign countries in amounts exceeding 20% of the mu tual fund 's total value; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in other assets, as allowed by legislation, in amounts exceeding 5% of the mutual f u n d 's assets; (3) acquiring or exchanging securities issued by persons, asset management companies, or depositories that are affiliated with the mutual fund; and (4) acquiring or investing additionally in securities with income guaranteed by foreign gov- ernments in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets. If a closed undiversified mutual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated as a ven ture fund. Only ju r id ical persons may be participants in a ven ture fund. Diversified mutual funds are prohibited from (1) holding more than 30% of the total va lue of the mutual fund 's assets in monetary resources, bank deposit accounts, savings certifi- cates, and/or bonds issued by commercial banks; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in securities of one issuer in amounts exceeding 5% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets; (3) acqu ir ing or inves t ing add i t iona l ly in government securities with income guaran- teed by the Cabinet of M in is te rs in amounts exceeding 25% of the total value of the mu tual fund 's assets (investment of a mutual fund 's resources in less than three types of govern- ment securities is prohibited); (4) acqu ir ing or inves t ing additionally in securities of local governments in amounts exceeding 10% of the total value of assets; (5) acquiring or invest- ing add i t iona l ly in bonds of enterprises issued by residents (except commercial banks) in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mu tual fund 's assets; and (6) acquiring or inves t ing add i t iona l ly more than 40% of the total va lue of the mu tual fund in shares of Ukrainian issuers. If a closed und ivers if ied mu tual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities, and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1024 UKRAINE as a venture fund. Only jur id ical persons may be participants in a venture fund. Assets of a mu tual fund are managed by an asset management company (any ju r id ical per- son created pu rsuant to Ukrainian legislation may be an asset management company). The total va lue of the assets of a mu tual fund that are managed by a single asset management company may not exceed an amount set by the commission's statutes and regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws n .a. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2002 January 1. The exchange arrangement of Ukraine was reclassified to the category conven- tional pegged arrangement from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. December 26. The 1 % tax on purchases of foreign exchange used to fund the state pension insurance was abolished. July 31. A cer t if ica te from the STA is requ ired for purchases of foreign currency by Group 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenclature for contracts exceeding $10,000. September 9. The 50% surrender requirement applied to resident jur id ical persons was ex- tended to resident na tural persons. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers September 9. F i f ty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies listed in Group 1 of the NBU 's foreign currency nomenclature must be surrendered and sold in the interbank market. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other in s t rumen ts Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Controls on credit opera t ions December 11. Transactions in foreign currencies in Group 1 of the NBU 's foreign ex- change nomenc la tu re under the terms of a forward contract were permitted for the purposes of hedg ing the risks of exchange rate f luc tua t ion s, provided that the economic agent has a contract. Transactions w i th other foreign currency derivatives for wh ich the unde r ly ing asset is a foreign currency in G roup 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenc la ture (futures, op t ions, etc.) were proh ib i ted. Changes During 2003 March 14. The 5% l im it on commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions was e l im ina ted. February 28. Res ident na tu ral persons t rave l ing on o f f ic ial business and nonres ident natu- ral persons may export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral dec lara t ion. February 12. N a t u r al persons were permitted to obtain credits from nonresidents after reg- is te r ing w i th the NBU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of the Un i ted Arab Emirates is the U .A .E. dirham. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Conven t ional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market E f fec t ive February 18, 2002, the U .A .E. d i rham was o f f i c i a l ly pegged to the dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at Dh 3.67275 per $1. Prior to this date, the exchange rate of the U.A.E. d irham was pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1 within margins of ±7.25% (the U .A .E. dirham has ma in ta ined a stable relationship with the dollar at the same rate since November 1997). No. No. The Un i ted Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and to sell dirhams forward for peri- ods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 m i l l i on ou ts tand ing for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 m i l l ion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a da i ly l im it of $3 m i l l ion on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-mon th swaps. This f a c i l i ty is designed to provide tem- porary d i rham l iqu id i ty to commercial banks. Swap fac i l i t ies are not available to banks hav ing a short position in dirhams, except for covering forward transactions for commercial purposes. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescr ip t ion requ i remen ts, but settlements w i th Israel are prohibited. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, the United Arab Emirates takes part in the GCC customs union. No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Yes. Resident Accounts 1025 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1026 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts may be maintained in offshore affiliates of domestic banks. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accoun ts may be opened by banks and trade, f inanc ia l, and industrial companies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local in s t i tu t ions in foreign countries; and by embassies and d ip loma t ic agencies. These accounts may also be opened by U .A .E. c i t izens work ing abroad and by nonres ident for- eigners work ing in the United Arab Emirates. Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Only licensed parties may engage in import trade. Importers may import only the goods specified in the ir licenses. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a few products are prohibited for health, security, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies b lack l is ted by the Arab League. Most imports are subject to a customs du ty of 4% of the c .i .f. value. E f fec t ive January 1, 2003, w i th the coming in to operation of the GCC customs un ion, th is rate was increased to 5%. Imports of alcohol and tobacco are subject to h igher rates. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 1027 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents At least 51% of the shares of U.A.E. corporations must be held by U.A.E. nationals or or- ganizations. Companies domiciled in free zones are exempt from this requirement and may be up to 100% foreign owned. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by GCC residents are exempt from controls. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of some mutual funds is permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. At least 51 % of the equ i ty of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. GCC nationals are permitted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors; and (2) up to 100% of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. GCC nationals are also permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law. In free zones, foreign ownership is permitted up to 100%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents E f fec t ive Ju ly 1, 2002, nonresidents may own properties in some real estate developments in Dubai. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks operating in the Un i ted Arab Emirates are requ ired to maintain special deposits w i th the UAECB equal to 30% of the ir dirham placements with, or loans to, nonresident banks when these transac t ions have a rema in ing maturity of one year or less. The profits of for- eign banks are subject to a profit tax levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1028 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Investment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Banks are not allowed to lend more than 7% of their capital base to one foreign institution. Also, they are not allowed to invest more than 25% of their own funds in shares or bonds issued by commercial companies. Loans to foreign governments with a first-class credit ra t ing and placement in such countries' f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are exempt from such limits. In banks by nonresidents Nonresidents may not acquire more than 20% of the share capital of any national bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions Changes During 2002 February 18. The U .A .E. d i rham was pegged to the do l lar at Dh 3.67275 per $1. July 1. Nonresidents were allowed to own property in some real estate developments in Dubai. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The GCC customs un ion began to operate. Imports and import payments January 1. The customs duty rate on most products was increased to 5% from 4%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of January 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V I II Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and br i tann ias are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the pound s ter l ing is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the authorities may in tervene at their discretion to moderate undue f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On February 5, 2002, the Un i ted K ingdom no t i f ied the IMF that, pu rsuant to relevant EU and UN Security Counc il resolutions, except under the authority of a license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to (1) make any funds or related financial services available for the benef it of any person associated with terrorism or the Taliban; or (2) hold funds by, for, or on behalf of any person or en t i ty who is or may be a terrorist. In add i t ion, the n o t i f i c a t i on states that banks have been ins t ruc ted to freeze all funds and other f inanc ial resources of those ind iv idua ls and organizations designated by the Taliban Sanctions Committee or any person or entity associated with the Taliban, and to freeze all funds and other f inanc ial resources of persons or entities designated as terrorists. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain res tr ic t ions are ma in ta ined on the mak ing of payments and transfers for current interna- t ional transac t ions w i th respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain ind iv idua ls associated with the p rev ious government of the former R epub l ic of Yugos lav ia, and Zimbabwe (the latter as of February 18, 2002). In accordance w i th EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, f inanc ing of and f inanc ial assistance related to m i l i tary activities in Somalia are pro- hibited. On December 20, 2002, res tr ic t ions against the UNITA movement in Angola were l i f t e d. Re s t r ic t ions also apply on transfers w i th respect to the Taliban and ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears No. 1029 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1030 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Gold bu l l ion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been issued in trade Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are free ly traded. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 or more for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of Na t ional Heritage. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import restrictions are in effect for pub l ic safety reasons and to satisfy international obligations. Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an OGL. The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are maintained under various EU bilateral agreements with third countries that are not members of the MFA; certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements; autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakhstan; EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other non ta r i ff measures UNITED KINGDOM 1031 the Slovak Repub l ic; and EU-w ide quotas on certain footwear and ceramic products from China. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through au tonomous ly imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, ho r t icu l tu ra l, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. There are EU dua l - su rve i l lance l icen s ing arrangements for imports of certain footwear products from V ie tnam, and for imports of steel products from the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Repub l ic. In accordance with EU arrangements, there are prior surveillance l icens ing arrangements for imports of certain non tex t i le products from Ch ina and certain steel products from all sources. Imports of cars f rom Japan are also subject to restraint un- der a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few ar t ic les may be imported under OGLs (i.e., w i thout l im it as to quan t i ty or va lue). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of na t ional security, animal welfare, na t ional heritage, and in accordance w i th in terna t ional agreements. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. The Secretary of State for Trade and Indus try may proh ib it a proposed transfer of control of an impo r tant U .K. m a n u f a c t u r i ng unde r tak ing to a nonres ident where the transfer of a sub- s tan t ial part of it is considered con t ra ry to the interests of the United Kingdom. If it is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1032 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on l iqu id a t i on of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap ital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts considered that the na t ional interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensa t ion. Both p roh ib i t ion and ves t ing orders are subject to par l iamen tary approval. These powers have not been used to date. No. No. No. Net spot l i ab i l i t i es in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources f u n d i ng s t e r l ing assets) form part of a bank 's e l ig ib le l i a b i l i t i es that are subject to a 0.15% non- in terest bea r ing deposit requ i rement w i th the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. The level of the deposit is based on the average of reported e l i g i b le l i a b i l i t i es over a s ix-mon th period in excess of £400 mil- l i o n. Th is r u le app l ies to banks as w e ll as to b u i l d i ng societies. There is cu r ren t ly no special depos it c a l l. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2002 February 5. The Un i ted K ingdom no t i f ied the IMF of the imp lemen ta t ion of leg is la t ion in accordance w i th EU and UN Secu r i ty Coun c il reso lu t ions regarding f u n ds and transfers in connection w i th the Taliban and ind iv idua l s, groups, and organizations associated with te r ro r ism. February 18. Certain f i n a n c i al transac t ions w i th Z imbabwe were proh ib i ted. December 20. The sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were l if ted. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. F i n a n c i ng of and f i n a n c i al assistance related to m i l i t a ry ac t iv i t ies in Somalia were p r o h i b i t e d. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Un i ted States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing The exchange rate of the do l lar is determined f ree ly in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Un i ted States is a member of the NAFTA. Administration of control No. International security restrictions The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) administers economic sanctions programs in- vo lv ing direct or ind irect f inanc ial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Islamic Re- pub l ic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, Sudan, specially designated global terrorists, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, indictees designated by the International Criminal Tribune for the former Yugo- slavia and certain persons associated with the government of the former Yugoslavia, per- sons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, foreign terror- ists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers, as specified under the fo l low ing: (1) the Cu- ban Assets Control Regu la t ions; (2) the Iranian Assets Control Regu la t ions and the Iranian Transactions Regu la t ion s; (3) the I raqi Sanctions Regu la t ions; (4) the Foreign Assets Con- trol Regu la t ions; (5) the Libyan Sanctions Regulations; (6) the Sudanese Sanctions Regula- t ions; (7) the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia M i losev ic Sanctions Regu la t ions and Resid- ual prov is ions of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia Kosovo Sanctions Regulations; (8) the Western Balkans Stabilization Regulations; (9) Executive Order No. 13224 ("Block- ing Property and Proh ib i t ing Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit or Support Terrorism"); (10) the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations; (11) the Terror- ism Sanctions Regulations; (12) the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations; and (13) the Narcotics Traff ick ing Sanctions Regulations and Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Sanctions. The Treasury has the adm in is t ra t ive respons ib i l i ty for blocked accounts of most sanctions targets. The comp rehens ive sanctions w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia have been l i f ted w i th respect to present transactions with persons other than specific mem- bers of the government, the ir associates, and ind iv idual war criminals. However, certain funds and other properties blocked under these sanctions programs remain blocked un t il provision is made to address claims or encumbrances w i th respect to such funds and prop- erty, i n c l u d i ng the c la ims of the successor states of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia. (Most of these assets have been unb locked .) 1033 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1034 UNITED STATES The Treasury also prohibits new investments in Myanmar, under the Burmese Sanctions Regulations; restricts certain offshore transactions invo lv ing strategic merchandise to cer- tain countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations; prohibits donative transfers, or those that pose a risk of fur ther ing terrorist acts in the United States by the government of Syria, under the Terrorism List Governments Sanctions Regulations; prohibits imports into the United States from certain entities that proliferate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, under the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations; and asserts protective jurisdiction over property and property interests of the government of the Rus- sian Federation that are in the United States and directly related to the implementation of the H igh ly Enriched Uran ium Agreements under Executive Order No. 13159 ("Blocked Property of the Government of the Russian Federation Relating to the Disposal of H igh ly Enriched Uran ium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons"). Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- na t ional transactions. Foreign assets control regulations permit most transactions w i th the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea and its nationals and have established a review procedure for the importation of goods therefrom. The assets of the fo l low ing are blocked, and certain transactions with them are prohibited: specified foreign persons and foreign persons later determined to have committed or to pose a significant risk of committing acts of terrorism that threaten national security, foreign policy, the U.S. economy, or the secu- rity of U.S. nationals; persons owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of terror- ists or the ir supporters; persons providing assistance or f inanc ia l, material, or technological support for, or f inanc ial or other services to, or in support of terrorists or acts of terrorism; and persons otherwise associated with any of the foregoing persons. The Treasury administers economic sanctions programs on the basis of UN Security Coun- cil Resolutions Nos. 1267, 1363, 1373, and 1390 invo lv ing certain direct or indirect finan- cial or commercial transactions with Iraq, Serbia and Montenegro, and persons associated with terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No restrictions are imposed except for the countries and groups of persons to which inter- national security restrictions apply. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or negotiable bearer securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Licenses w i th quo tas Import taxes and/or tariffs UNITED STATES 1035 The accounts of the fo l low ing nations and entities are blocked: Cuba and Cuban nationals; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; the UN ITA movement in Angola and its senior off ic ia ls; foreign terror- ists who threa ten to d isrupt the Middle East peace process; foreign terrorist organizations; persons ind ic ted by the In terna t ional Criminal T r ibunal for the former Yugoslavia and spe- c i f ic persons associated w i th the government of the former Yugos lav ia; specially desig- nated narcotics traffickers; foreign persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the western Balkans; and foreign persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism. Funds associated w i th H igh ly Enriched U ran ium agreements concluded with the Russian Federation are also blocked. Certain accounts previously blocked pursuant to eco- nom ic sanc t ions against the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea and Serbia and Mon- tenegro remain blocked, no tw i ths tand ing an easing of such sanctions. However, effec t ive February 25, 2003, most blocked accounts of Serbia and Montenegro and the former Fed- eral Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia were unb locked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The impor ta t ion of most goods and services or ig ina t ing in Cuba, the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, or Sudan or that were produced or provided by certain entities that prolif- erate nuc lea r, b io log ica l, or chemical weapons is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Treasury. Imports from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require prior notification to and approval from the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The importation of diamonds from Angola and all rough diamonds from Liberia and Sierra Leone is prohib- ited, un le ss they have passed th rough the cer t if ica te-of-or ig in process in these countries. Bilateral import quo ta agreements on textiles and c lo th ing exist w i th numerous countries. These are to be phased out over 10 years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the U ruguay Round of Mu l t i la te ral Trade Negotiations. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products in to the WTO regime over a 10-year t rans i t ion period, and the gradual phasing out of quan- titative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. Integration is taking place in four stages: in 1995, 16% of the vo lume of tex t i le and apparel trade was integrated; at the b eg inn ing of year 4 and year 7, an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, w i ll be integrated; and after year 10, all remaining products will be integrated. With regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast ma jor i ty of quotas affec t ing imports to the Un i ted States w i ll be subject to au toma t ic "growth-on-growth" l ibera l iza t ion du r ing each year of the transition period. Import tar iffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of beverages and tobacco, tex t i les and c lo th ing, and leather and footwear. As a resu lt of the Uruguay Round, a ll t a r i ff l ines are bound. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1036 Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas UNITED STATES The Depar tment of Commerce (DOC) con tro ls the export and reexport of dual-use prod- ucts, technology, and software for reasons of national security, foreign policy, nonprolifera- t ion, and short supp ly. Except for sh ipment to U.S. territories and possessions, wh ich are treated as part of the Un i ted States, most exports ou ts ide the United States are subject to the Export Adm in is tra t ion Regulations. Several agencies of the U.S. government maintain export con tro ls on produc ts o ther than dua l -use articles and services. For example, the Treasury p roh ib i ts exports of certain types of goods, services, and technology to specifi- c a l ly sanc t ioned coun t r ies and rec ip ien ts, and certain exports to sanctioned countries are subject to l icenses that are issued on a day-by-day basis, pursuant to established policies and procedures. Likewise, the Department of Agriculture controls the export of livestock, da iry, and p o u l t ry items. Amm u n i t i on for m i l i t a ry use may be exported on ly under license issued by the Off ice of Defense Trade Con tro ls in the Department of State. The DOC administers controls on ex- ports of c r ime con t rol items, de tec t ion equ ipmen t, and related technologies to most coun- tr ies that depend on the commod i t ies. Export taxes n .a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Pu rcha se l o c a l ly by non r e s id en ts Sale or i s sue lo c a l ly by non r e s id en ts On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On c o l l e c t i ve i n v e s tm e nt s e cu r i t i es Laws on inwa rd d i rect inve s tment app ly to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. The control applies o n ly to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be re- stricted by laws on inwa rd d i rect inves tment and on establishment in the nuc lear energy, m a r i t im e, c omm u n i c a t i o n s, and a ir transport indu s t r ie s. Fo re ign m u t u al f u n ds are restricted. This res tr ic t ion applies on ly to (1) nonres ident issuers that are de f ined as inve s tment compan ies under the Inves tment Company Act and (2) the use of sma ll bu s ine ss reg is t ra t ion forms and a sma l l- issues exemption by nonresident issuers. Foreign m u t u al f u n ds are restricted. The control applies on ly to nonresident issuers that are de f ined as inv e s tm ent compan ies und er the Inves tment Company Act. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The r e g u l a t i o ns gove rn ing shares and o ther secu r i t ies of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture apply. Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1037 Controls on credit operations No. By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment The Johnson Act p roh ib i t s, w i th ce r ta in excep t ions, persons w i t h in the Un i ted States from d e a l ing in f i n a n c i al ob l iga t ions or ex tend ing loans to fore ign gove rnmen ts that have de- fau l ted on paymen ts of t h e ir ob l iga t ions to the U.S. gove rnmen t. The Act does not apply to those fo re ign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. New investments in Myanmar are p roh ib i ted. There are also controls on investment trans- actions w i th or invo lv ing Cuba and Cuban na t iona ls; the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; the UN ITA movement in Angola and its senior off ic ia ls; persons who com- m i t, threaten to commit, or support terrorism; foreign terrorists who disrupt the M idd le East Peace Forces; persons indicted by the In terna t ional Cr im inal Tr ibunal for the former Yugo- slavia and persons associated with the government of the former Yugoslavia; specially designated narcotics traff ickers; and, foreign persons who threaten international stabiliza- t ion efforts in the Western Balkans. Laws on inwa rd d i rect inves tment app ly to purchases in the Un i ted States by nonres iden ts. This con t rol app l ies on ly to inves tmen ts that may be res tr ic ted by laws on inward direct inves tment and es tab l ishment in the n u c l e ar energy, ma r i t ime, commun ica t ions, and a ir transport indu s t r ie s. Foreign acqu i s i t ions of con trol that threaten to impa ir na t ional secur i ty may be suspended or p roh ib i ted. Inves tmen ts i n v o l v i ng owne rsh ip in terest in banks are sub ject to federal and state b ank ing laws and regu la t ion s. However, as noted above, there are con t ro ls on inve s tment t ransac t ions w i th or i n v o l v i ng Cuba and Cuban na t iona ls; the I s lam ic R e p u b l ic of I ran; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; the UN ITA movement in Ango la and i ts sen- ior o f f i c i a l s; persons ind i c t ed by the In te rna t ional C r im i n al T r ibunal for fo rmer Yugo s lav ia and persons associated w i th the government of the former Yugos lav ia; persons who threa ten in t e rn a t ion al s tab i l iza t ion e f fo r ts in the Western Ba lkans, fore ign terror is ts who threaten to d i s rupt the M i d d le East peace process; persons who comm i t, threaten to commit, or support terror ism; fo re ign terror ist o rgan iza t ions; and spec ia l ly designated d rug t ra f f ick- ers. The Omn ibus Trade Act con ta ins a p rov i s ion, the Exon -F lo r io Amendmen t, au tho r iz- ing the pres ident to suspend or p roh ib it fo re ign acqu i s i t ion s, mergers, and takeovers in the Un i t ed States if he de term ines that the fo re ign inves tor m ight take action that wou ld th rea ten to impa ir na t ional secur i ty and if ex i s t ing laws, o ther than the In te rna t ional Emer- gency Econom ic Powers Act and the Exon -F lo r io Amendment i t se l f, are no t, in the presi- d en t 's j u d gm e n t, adequa te or appropr ia te to protect na t ional secur i ty. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by non res iden ts Owne r sh ip of a g r i c u l t u r al land by fo re ign na t iona ls or by corporations in wh i ch fo re ign owners have an in te re st of at least 10% or subs tan t ial control must be reported to the De- partment of A g r i c u l t u r e. Certain states in the Un i ted States impose va r ious controls on fo re ign n a t i o n a l s' purchases of land w i t h in the ir borders. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions No. No. Investment regulations Banks are subject to pruden t ial oversight in these areas. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The fo re ign currency po s i t ions of banks, whe ther overa ll or w i th respect to i n d i v i d u al cur- renc ies, are not sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i t a t i o n s, but banks are subject to p r u d e n t i al ove rs igh t. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1038 UNITED STATES Changes During 2002 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2003 Nonresident accounts February 25. Most blocked accounts of Serbia and Montenegro, and the former Federal Repub l ic of Yugoslavia were unb locked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of April 30, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently f loa t ing Exchange tax Effec t ive June 20, 2002, the exchange rate of the Uruguayan peso is determined on the basis of supply and demand, although the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) reserves the right to intervene to ensure orderly market conditions. As a result, the authorities aban- doned the crawling band and the exchange rate arrangement of Uruguay was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. Prior to that date, the exchange rate for the Uruguayan peso was determined in the exchange market, where the CBU intervened —at either extreme of the band only —to ensure that the rate remained w i th in a band. The exchange rate band was depreciated daily at a predetermined monthly rate, and the CBU announced its intervention buying and selling rates daily. The rate of depreciation against the dollar was 1.2% a month and the total width of the band was 6%. Effective January 5, 2002, the rate of depreciation was further increased to 2.4% a month, and the band was temporarily widened to 12%. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, with the exception of those by the CBU and o f f ic ial banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market There is a contract executed between the CBU and Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay in order to perform forward operations to sell dollars. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements of balances under the mu l t i la teral clearing system are made in dollars. A bilateral payments arrangement with Cuba is inoperative. Payments between U ruguay and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LA IA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Operations are carried out through banks and finance houses that have been authorized by the CBU. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell f inanc ial gold with a f ine- ness of not less than 0.9. 1039 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1040 URUGUAY Controls on external trade Residents may f r e e ly import and export gold w i th a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for indu s t r ial purposes is subject to the general po l icy that governs the exportation, importa- t ion, and t rad ing of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted He ld dome s t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n .r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other non tar i ff measures No. No. No. Nega t ive l i st Open general l icenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of used cars and c h i c k en parts are proh ib i ted. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs d u r i ng that period. Under MERCOSUR, a CET ex is ts among Argen t ina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. There are 11 tax rates. In i t ia l ly, the maximum rate was 20%. However, a surcharge imposed in 1997 raised t h is m a x im um to 23%. U ruguay was granted an exemption from the surcharge for capital and certain intermediate goods. Regionally produced capital goods and tele- commun i c a t ions equ ipm ent are sub ject to ta r i f fs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR were perm i t ted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET un t il 2001, at which t ime they became sub ject to the CET. In add i t ion, for Uruguay, the tar iffs on capital goods, t e l e commun i c a t ions equ ipm en t, buses, and trucks w i ll not be subject to the CET un t il 2006. Import du t ies among MERCOSUR countries have been generally eliminated, with certain excep t ions. Du t ies on wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, tex t i les, and apparel are computed on the basis of "m i n im um export prices," wh ich provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on these goods, d ep end ing on the d i f fe rence between the m in imum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 1041 State import monopoly Impo r ts of d e r i v a t i v es are sub ject to a state monopo ly and are expected to be l ib e r a l i z ed in 2006. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Occas iona l ly, and for special reasons (e.g., stock pos i t ion, p ro tec t ion, or san i ta ry considera- t ions ), ce r ta in expor ts are p roh ib i ted or are sub ject to special requ i remen ts. Expor ts of dry, salted, and p ick led h ides are subject to a 5% tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The Capital Market Securities and Negotiable Obligations Law provides a framework in wh ich f i n a n c i al marke ts are la rge ly s e l f - r egu l a t ing but supervised by the CBU. Mu tu al and p r iva te pen s ion fund s, as we ll as in su r an ce companies, are regu la ted separately. E f fec t ive A p r il 1, 2002, a l though pr iva te pension funds must hold an imp l i c it legal m i n im um ra t io of 40% (prev ious ly, 50%) in the form of government secur i t ies, the trans i tory ma in tenance of t ime deposits w i th the CBU is permitted w i t h o ut l im i t a t ion s. In the p u b l ic sector, the type of operation permitted depends on the type of in s t i tu t ion. Government agencies are covered by the ir own bylaws, and the central government and departmental governments are cov- ered by th e ir own procedures, wh i ch are more res t r ic t ive. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies The M u t u al Funds Law d e f in es i n s t r um e n ts and con ta ins several r equ i r em en ts regard ing c o n f l i ct of in te re st and sa fekeep ing. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward d irect inves tment n . r. No. The Law for the P romo t ion and P ro tec t ion of Inves tment requ i res iden t ical treatment of domes t ic and fore ign investors and free transfer of capital. It provides for certain exemp- t ions from wea l th and value-added taxes and for the reduc t ion of social secur i ty taxes to a 3% rate. It es tab l ishes n a t ion al p r io r i t i es and p rov ides corresponding incen t ive s. It exempts f rom t a r i f fs impor ted inpu ts whose domes t ic p rodu c t ion has been reduced or d i scon t inued. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1042 URUGUAY Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements E f fec t ive September 2, 2002, deposits in local currency were subject to mandatory m in i- mum reserve requirements of 30%, 24%, and 22% for maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and more than 180 days, respectively (previously, 30- to 180-day deposits were subject to a 4% requ iremen t; the requ i rement for all other deposits was 10%). E f fec t ive Apr il 2, 2003, the mandatory m in imum reserve requ iremen ts for deposits in local currency were reduced to 27.5%, 21.5%, and 5% for deposits w i th ma tu r i ty of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 180 to 367 days, respectively. Foreign currency deposits are subject to a mandatory m in imum reserve requirements of 10% for maturities of less than 180 days and, effec t ive September 2, 2002, 4% for longer maturities (previously, 10%). In addition, a mandatory m in imum interest-bearing reserve requirement of 15% (prior to September 2, 2002, 11.5%) is applied to total deposits in for- eign currency. This latter requ irement may be met by a deposit at the CBU or by ho ld ing dollar-denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU w i th a mandatory ho ld ing of at least 6% of total deposits (prev ious ly, 11.5%). The reserve requ i rement on foreign cur- rency deposits excludes those of nonresidents that apply to placements with nonresidents. Certain banks are subject to a 100% reserve requ irement for sight and savings accounts. Deposits placed by nonres iden ts are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Effec t ive September 2, 2002, reserves are computed on the basis of da i ly average deposits, inc lud ing weekends. For foreign currency deposits, at least 90% of the required reserves need to be complied with on a daily basis. For peso deposits, reserve balances are allowed to be less than the requ ired level for up to four days a month w i thout penalty. Liquid asset requirements E f fec t ive Apr il 2, 2003, at least 30% of nonresident deposits are requ ired to be held in a por tfo l io of l iqu id assets. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio he ld abroad Limits (min.) on investment por tfo l io held locally A ce i l ing is placed on the asset position of foreign or local currency of 150% of the book va lue equity less adm in is tra t ive f ixed assets (i.e., nonperform ing loans that are two years or more overdue, fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges). There is also a ceiling on the asset or l iab i l i ty position of foreign currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., fu tu re contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book va lue equity less adm in is tra t ive f ixed assets. Effec t ive November 29, 2002, there is an intraday trading l im it of 1.5% of a pension f u n d 's assets in peso-denominated ins trumen ts and there is a l im it of US$1 m i l l ion on intraday trading in foreign currency. Effec t ive February 28, 2003, in calculating compliance with the former l im i t, pens ion funds were allowed to mu l t ip ly the value of the ir local currency- denominated private sector ins t rumen ts by 1.8. Insurance companies must hold a maximum of 5% of total assets, except for l i fe insurance contracts, for wh ich companies may hold 20% of requ ired provisions. Private pension funds are permitted to invest on ly in domestic issuer securities, inc lud ing those issued abroad. These funds must deal in domestic formal markets in accordance with CBU regula- tions. Private pension funds must ho ld a m in imum ratio of total assets of 50% in the form of gov- eminent securities. In the pub l ic sector, the type of operation permitted depends on the type of ins t i tu t ion. Government agencies are covered by the ir own bylaws, and the central gov- ernment and departmental governments are covered by the ir own procedures, which are more restrictive. On November 29, 2002, a new regulation was introduced, requiring pen- sion funds to increase the share of the ir assets held in peso-denominated ins trumen ts to 25% by the end of 2002, to 35% by the end of March 2003, and to 40% by the end of June 2003. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 1043 Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Insurance companies must match assets with l iab i l i t ie s, No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2002 January 5. The monthly rate of depreciation against the dollar was increased to 2.4% from 1.2%. January 5. The width of the band of the exchange rate was temporarily increased to 12% from 6%. This band w id th was effective through end-June 2002. June 20. The authorities abandoned the crawling band, and the exchange rate arrangement of Uruguay was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. April 1. Private pension funds were required to hold an implicit legal m in imum ratio of 40% (previously 50%) in the form of government securities, but the transitory maintenance of deposits with the CBU was permitted. September 2. The m in imum mandatory reserve requirement was increased to 30% for de- posits in local currency with maturity of less than 30 days, to 24% with maturity of 30 to 180 days, and to 22% with maturity of more than 180 days, and the minimum mandatory reserve requirement for foreign currency deposits was reduced to 4% from 10% for maturi- ties more than 180 days. September 2. The m in imum interest-bearing, mandatory reserve requirement for foreign currency deposits was raised to 15% from 11.5% of total deposits. The mandatory holding of dollar-denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU was reduced to 6% from 11.5% of total deposits. September 2. Reserves are computed on the basis of daily average deposits, including weekends. Provisions specific to institutional investors November 29. An intraday trading limit of 1.5% of a pension fund 's assets in peso- denominated instruments, and US$1 m i l l ion on foreign currency came into effect. November 29. Private pension funds were required to increase the share of their assets held in foreign currency-denominated instruments to 25% by end-2002, to 35% by end-March 2003, and to 40% by end-June 2003. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions April 2. At least 30% of nonresident deposits are required to be held in a portfolio of liquid assets. April 2. The m in imum mandatory reserve requirement was reduced to 27.5%, 21.5%, and 5% for deposits in local currency with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 180 to 367 days, respectively. Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors February 28. In ca lcu la t ing compliance w i th intraday trad ing limits, pension funds were allowed to mu l t ip ly the value of their local currency-denominated private sector instru- ments by 1.8. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of June 30, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure M u l t i p le Classification Managed f lo a t ing w i th no pre- announ c ed path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Uzbek is tan is the Uzbek sum. The exchange arrangement consists of three exchange rates: (1) an over-the-counter (OTC) rate, wh ich is determined at an OTC-based interbank auc t ion, and applies to surrendered por t ions of proceeds from noncen t ra l ized exports, to servicing of foreign debts, and to li- censed imports of goods and services; (2) an o f f ic ial rate used for statistical reporting, ac- coun t ing, and customs va lua t ion purposes and for conversion of surrender proceeds from cotton f iber exports, wh ich takes in to account the OTC rate, the behavior of the money supp ly, and the domestic in f la t ion rate; and (3) the exchange bureau market rate, which app l ies to personal cash transac t ions and, effec t ive Ju ly 16, 2002, to imports of consumer goods ( i n c l u d i ng payments for transport and communication; previously, these were ef- fected at the OTC rate). On Ap r il 15, 2002, the exchange bureau market exchange rate was devalued to SUM 1,400 per US$1 from SUM 900 per US$1, making it approximately equal to the cu rb market rate, wh ich is determined by supp ly and demand. Effec t ive May 2, 2002, on ly proof of residence is requ ired to access the exchange bureau market. Effec t ive June 16, 2003, imports of consumer goods are effected at the OTC rate (previously, at the exchange bu reau market rate). The Central Bank of Uzbek is tan (CBU) f ixes the o f f ic ial rate on a weekly basis, taking into account the OTC exchange rate, the behavior of money supply, and the domestic inf la t ion rate. Exchange rates are f ixed in terms of the do l la r. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined from t h e ir cross rates against the do l lar in the international market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Con tro ls on the use of domestic cu r rency For capital transactions Transactions in cap i tal and money market in s t rumen ts Transactions in de r iva t ives and o ther instruments Cred it ope ra t ions Use of foreign exchange among res iden ts Settlements with coun tr ies with wh ich Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance w i th the terms of the agreements. Transactions with other coun- tries are settled in conve r t ib le currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. E f fec t ive J u ly 1, 2002, the use of foreign exchange for internal settlements involving goods and services (except for sales of a i r l i ne tickets by a i r l ine companies for f l igh ts between po in ts ou t s ide Uzbek is tan) is fo rb idd en. 1044 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1045 Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Uzbek is tan ma in ta ins intergovernmental agreements with Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakh- stan, Russia, and Ukraine. Agreements w i th Indonesia, the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, the Kyrgyz Repub l ic, Malaysia, Moldova, and Turkmenistan are inoperative. Barter agreements and open accounts Uzbek is tan ma in ta ins an agreement w i th Ta j ik is tan invo lv ing settlement of f re ight transport and deliveries of natural gas and petroleum products. Adm in istrat ion of control Transac t ions in fore ign currency are con tro l led by the CBU and authorized banks, the State Customs Committee, and the M in is try of Finance. The Agency for Foreign Economic Rela- t ions (AFER) is responsible for regu la t ing foreign economic ac t iv i t ies and representing Uzbekistan in foreign economic forums; a t trac t ing fore ign investments and providing for the ir effec t ive use; developing foreign economic re la t ions; and ce r t i fy ing imports and ex- ports. The M in i s t ry of Jus t ice registers enterprises for foreign inves tment ac t iv i t ies. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Gold is imported and exported on the basis of licenses issued by the AFER. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Foreign exchange not exceeding the equ iva lent of $1,500 may be exported w i thout restric- t ion. Amoun ts to ta l ing $1,500-$5,000 may be exported w i th a permit f rom an authorized bank. Amoun ts in excess of $5,000 requ ire a CBU permit. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted All enterprises, regardless of ownersh ip, are allowed to open accounts in domestic and fore ign currencies at va r ious domestic banks. Ind iv idua ls are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. The open ing of accounts abroad by ind iv idua ls and legal en t i t ies that are residents of Uzbekistan requ i re CBU approval. CBU approval is not required for accounts opened by resident ind iv idua ls du r ing temporary stays abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a contract that has been preregistered w i th the AFER before they may purchase fore ign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1046 UZBEKISTAN Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The open ing of fore ign exchange accounts by nonresident ind iv idua ls and by foreign d ip- lomatic, in te rna t iona l, commercial, and other off ices located in Uzbekistan that do not en- gage in commercial business is allowed w i thout CBU permission. The open ing of Uzbek sum accounts by nonresident ind iv idua ls and foreign diplomatic, in terna t iona l, and other off ices located in Uzbekistan that do not engage in commercial ac t iv i t ies is allowed w i thout CBU permission. Conver t ib le in to fore ign currency Yes. Approval requ ired •T Blocked accounts Importers must present documen ts conf irm ing the legitimacy of foreign exchange pur- chases and a contract that was preregistered with the AFER before they may purchase for- eign exchange. Local currency accounts of importers may be reserved (with the ir consent) by banks wh i le awa i t ing conversion in to foreign exchange. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i remen ts Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection Advance payments for imports of up to 15% of the contract va lue against a counterpart bank guarantee f rom the correspondent bank are permitted, but may not exceed the equiva- lent of $ 100,000. Advance payments exceeding $ 100,000 may be made w i th the permission of the cabinet of m in is ters. Advance payments may not be transferred to certain offshore zones or be used to settle services performed in these zones. Importers who wish to purchase foreign exchange to make an advance payment under an import contract must deposit the equivalent amount in sum. This deposit is released on ly after a certification is made that the goods have actually been imported, but import contracts financed w i th centralized sources in sum are exempt from th is certification requirement. E f fec t ive October 1, 2002, specific consumer goods require health or qua l i ty certification. This certification is administered by the state agency Uzstandart. Importers are en t i t led at the ir discretion to engage consulting firms for eva lua t ion of con- tracts and execution of preshipment inspections followed by registration of the contracts with the AFER or to apply to the AFER for evaluation and registration of contracts based on the established procedure w i thout a preshipment inspection. Preshipment inspection is required for imports of meat and edible meat by-products; dairy products; oil seeds and f ru i t s; a lcoho l ic and nona lcoho l ic beverages; tobacco products; equipment, mechanical devices, and electrical mach inery; and equ ipment imported for the implementation of pro- jects inc luded in the Repub l ic of Uzbekistan Investment Program under contracts exceeding the equ iva lent of $10,000 in total value. Letters of credit Documentary letters of credit are used in import settlements. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Contracts are required to be preregistered with the AFER only if they are financed through the conversion of sum funds into a free ly convertible currency and under lines of credit extended by in terna t ional and foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions against Uzbek government guarantees in accordance with government decrees. Imports of medicines requ ire import licenses from the M in is try of Health; imports of weap- ons, precious metals and gems, uran ium, and other radioactive substances requ ire import licenses f rom the AFER; imports of foreign movies, videos, and audio recordings requ ire import licenses f rom the M in is t ry of Cu l tu ral Affairs. Imports of ozone-depleting sub- stances requ i re permits issued by the State Committee for Environmental Protection. Foreign nationals must obtain a permit from the M in is try of Labor and Social Security to engage in professional activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs UZBEKISTAN 1047 Effec t ive October 5, 2002, a positive l ist of consumer goods is ma in ta ined. Imports of the fo l low ing are p roh ib i ted: p r in ted matter, manusc r ip ts, plates, drawings, pho- tographs, photographic f i lm, negatives, movies, v ideo or aud io recordings, phonograph records, and aud io ma ter ia ls aimed at u n d e rm i n i ng state and social order, v io l a t ing the country's territorial integrity, political independence, or state sovereignty; or promoting war, terrorism, violence, na t ional ex c lu s iv i ty, r e l ig ious ha tred, or racism and va r ious forms of racism. Imports of materials w i th a pornographic content are also p roh ib i ted. Prior to Ju ly 1, 2002, when it was e l im ina ted, a l i st of 46 consumer goods whose importa- tion is "not recommended" was ma in ta ined (e f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, the l ist was short- ened to 46 goods from 61, and effective April 1, 2002, it was fur ther shortened to include 26 goods). Tenders are held for imports of ma jor food items (e.g., sugar and whea t). Open tenders are held for imports of med ic ines to prov ide emergency med ical care based on a l ist es tab l ished by the M in is t ry of Hea l th, and also for impor ts of med ic ines for state needs. Closed tenders are held for imports of vaccines, serums, anesthetics, and narcotics. Effec t ive October 1, 2002, qua r te r ly l im i ts es tab l ished for au tho r ized banks on purchases of foreign exchange for imports of soc ia l ly impor tant goods, i n c l u d i ng med ic ines, were eliminated. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, quan t i ta t ive l im i ts app ly to imports of spec if ic consumer goods by natural persons for personal use (prev ious ly, the l im it was the equ iv a l ent of $1,000). The s imp le average customs ta r i ff rate is 15.3% and the weighted average ta r i ff rate in 2002 was 1.45%, based on total import vo lume, or 2.28%, based on total import vo lume exc lud ing du ty-free items. Ad valorem customs du ty rates are applied at three levels (zero, 10%, and 30%) of the customs va lue (pr ior to J u ly 1, 2002, a fou r th rate —20% —also ap- plied). Of the 1,994 food group subheadings of the Foreign Economic Ac t iv i ty Commodity Nomenclature (at the n ine -d ig it level), the zero rate app l ies to 1 ,011 subheadings, the 10% rate to 62, and the 30% rate to 750. One hund red subhead ings (a lcoho l ic and non a l coho l ic beverages) are subject to combined du ty rates. In add i t ion, an excise tax of between 5% and 90% is levied on 34 product groups. A VAT of 20% is levied on all imported goods exc lud- ing the fo l low ing: (1) equ ipment and materials (products and services) imported by legal entities and by nonres iden ts w i th borrowings and grants f rom in te rna t ional and fore ign governmental f inanc ial and economic o rgan iza t ions under treaties or agreements; (2) equipment and materials (products and services) imported under budget appropr ia t ions based on orders f rom budget-supported organizations; (3) pharmaceu t ica ls and medical products; (4) equ ipment imported to be leased out, p rov id ing that there is an appropriate conf irma t ion from an au thor ized bank; and (5) compu ter hardware, accessories, and software. A levy amoun t ing to 0.2% of customs v a lue is collected for customs c learance of imported goods. A s imp l i f ied procedure for co l lec t ion of customs charges, whe reby a u n i f o rm customs charge is paid in place of VAT (20%), customs duties, and the levy on goods brought in by ind iv idua ls, wh ich was 50% of customs va lue, became effec t ive on J u ne 1, 2002, for ind i- v idua ls b r ing ing in goods in tended for commercial ac t iv i t ies. The un i fo rm customs charge is collected on the customs va lue of goods, w i th rates of 50% for food items, 90% for non- food items, and zero for f lou r. On October 1, 2002, the rate of the un i fo rm customs charge paid by ind iv idua ls was reduced to 40% for food items and 70% for non food items, w i th the rate for f lour unchanged at zero. E f fec t ive June 1, 2002, ind iv idua ls may b r ing in goods du ty free for the ir personal use up to the equ iva lent of $1,000. On January 1, 2003, th is was replaced w i th quan t i ta t ive l im i ts. On August 1, 2002, a 30% surcharge was imposed on non food imports by j u r i d i c al per- sons, payable in convertible currencies —on September 23, 2002, th is tax was reduced to 20% and is payable in domestic currency; on December 1, 2002, it was fu r ther reduced to 10% and was abolished on January 1, 2003. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, a customs fee of 20% is collected on imports of non food consumer goods produced in th i rd coun t r ies and reexported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1048 UZBEKISTAN State import monopoly Imports of soc ia l ly impor tant food products aimed at supplying public and state needs are effected by the Uzbeksavdo joint-stock company. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i th quotas F i f ty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies from exports of nontraditional goods and services must be surrendered to authorized banks at the free OTC market exchange rate, wh ich is determined by supp ly and demand. Microfirms and small and medium-sized en- terprises are allowed to retain foreign currency proceeds from exports of their own products and services. Proceeds in fore ign currenc ies from centralized exports of cotton fiber must be surrendered to the CBU at the central bank exchange rate. Effective April 1, 2002, the surrender re- qu i r em ent for strategic goods was reduced to 50% from 100%. Small and med ium-s ized enterprises may export their own products and services for cash fore ign cu r rency th rough payment off ices of bank ins t i tu t ions with foreign exchange pro- ceeds be ing credited to the ir accounts in accordance with the established procedure. Effec- t ive February 1, 2002, economic entities may export goods and services for convertible cu r renc ies w i t h o ut prepayment or open ing an LC, provided that there is a guarantee from the buye r 's banks or an insu rance po l icy pro tec t ing export contracts against political and commercial risks (p rev ious ly, exports requ ired a 100% prepayment, the opening of an LC, or a fore ign bank guarantee). Enterprises are allowed to export their own goods on a con- s ignment basis to th e ir fore ign trad ing houses. Yes. Yes. Exports of weapons, prec ious metals, u ran ium, and other radioactive substances require licenses f rom the AFER. Exports of listed animals and plants require licenses from the AFER that are issued on the basis of a permit from the State Conservation Committee. Profess ional ac t iv i t ies abroad by Uzbek citizens requ ire a permit from the Ministry of La- bor and Social Security. Exports of research data requ ire licenses from the State Committee on Science and Technology, and exports of works of art require licenses from the Ministry of Cu l tu ral A f fa i rs. Exports of an t iques and works of art, livestock and poultry, meat, raw hides, scrap metal, nonferrous scrap metal and waste, silkworm cocoons and raw silk, sugar, vegetable o i l, and wheat and flour products are banned. Prior to May 20, 2002, the banned l ist also inc luded ethanol, powdered milk, and tea. Exports of crude o i l, gas condensate, l inen and cotton fiber, and ferrous metals are subject to export l icen s ing w i t h in the amount of established quotas. Exports of sugar, vegetable oil, wheat and flour products, meat and poultry, raw hides and skins, powdered milk, antiques, scrap metal, s i lkworm cocoons, and raw silk are prohibited. Export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits P r ior to Janua ry 1, 2002, there were l im i ts on the amount of foreign exchange an individual cou ld purchase for travel abroad, wh ich varied by destination. Effective this date, these l im i ts were replaced w i th a l im it on the amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased in a calendar quarter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1049 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 2002, a l im it of the equ iva lent of $750 a calendar quarter was estab- lished on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bureaus (p rev ious ly, access to foreign exchange by ind iv idua ls was restricted to travel expenses w i t h in l im i ts established by the CBU). On Ap r il 1, 2002, th is l im it was increased to the equ iva lent of $1,000, and on May 23, 2002, to $2,000, consisting of up to $1,000 in cash and up to $1,000 in traveler's checks. On June 3, 2002, this was fur ther increased to $2,500, cons is t ing of $1,500 in cash and $1,000 in t rave le r 's checks. Effec t ive May 1, 2002, on ly a va l id passport is requ ired to effect these transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds from exports of services are subject to the same surrender requirements as those app ly ing to proceeds from exports of goods. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market secu r i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts Yes. Sale or issue l o c a l ly by non re s iden ts Pu rchase abroad by res iden ts The p lacement of secur i t ies of fore ign issuers in Uzbekistan is based on annual quotas as- signed by the Cab inet of M in i s te r s, as de term ined by the law "On Securities and the Stock Market ." These t ransac t ions are governed by the statute "On the Procedure for the Adm iss ion, Regis- t r a t ion, and P lacement of Secur i t ies of Foreign Issuers on the Territory of the R epub l ic of Uzbek is tan and of Uzbek Issuers Abroad." Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Yes. On co l lec t ive inves tment secu r i t ies Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n . r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1050 UZBEKISTAN Controls on credit operations All credit and guarantee operations are subject to controls. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward d irect inves tment Investors may establish enterprises abroad upon decision of the legal en t i ty 's top manage- ment body. The AFER must be no t i f ied of the registration of an enterprise abroad. Investors may establish foreign investment enterprises (FIE), wh ich are a form of direct investment, af ter the ir registration with the M in is try of Justice and its regional offices. En- terprises may be assigned FIE status subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) the authorized capital of the enterprise must be at least the equ iva lent of $150,000; (2) one of the partici- pants in the enterprise must be a foreign legal entity; and (3) the share of foreign invest- ment must be at least 30% of the enterprise's authorized capital. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment The M in is t ry of Jus t ice and its regional off ices supervise FIEs' compliance w i th the ir statu- tory obligations and the procedures for their registration and l iqu ida t ion. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale loca l ly by non res iden ts Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions spec if ic to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks are allowed to make loans in foreign currencies, subject to the l im it on the foreign currency open position. Reserve requirements apply only to domestic currency-denominated deposits held by enterprises. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n . r. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange arrangement UZBEKISTAN 1051 Changes During 2002 April 15. The exchange bu reau market rate was deva lued to SUM 1,400 per US$1 from SUM 900 per US$1, mak ing it app rox ima te ly equal to the cu rb market rate. May 2. On ly proof of residence was requ i red to access the exchange bu r e au market. July 16. Conversions for imports of consumer goods ( inc lud ing transport and communica- tions) can be effected at the cash fore ign exchange market rate (prev ious ly, the OTC rate). Arrangements for payments and receipts July 1. The use of foreign exchange for in te rnal se t t lemen ts i n v o l v i ng goods and services (except for sales of a i r l ine t icke ts by a i r l ine compan ies for f l i g h ts between po in ts outside Uzbekistan) was forbidden. Imports and import payments January 1. The l ist of consumer goods whose impo r ta t ion is "not recommended" was shortened to 46 goods from 61. April 1. The list of consumer goods whose impo r ta t ion is "not recommended" was short- ened to 26 goods from 46. June 1. Consumer goods to be imported for personal use by na tu ral persons were subject to a $1,000 equ iva lent l im i t. June 1. Un i f ied tar iffs of 90% on nonfood and 50% on food products imported by natural persons (shu t t le traders) were in troduced. July 1. A new ta r i ff schedu le was in troduced w i th three t a r i ff bands of zero, 10%, and 30%. July 1. The list of consumer goods whose importation is "not recommended" was eliminated. August 1. A surcharge of 30% was imposed on imports of nonfood consumer goods by ju r id ical persons to be paid in convertible currencies. September 23. The surcharge imposed on imports of nonfood consumer goods by j u r i d i c al persons was reduced to 20% from 30%, and was payable in domestic currency. October I. Certificates regard ing hea l th or q u a l i ty were r equ i r ed for imports of certain consumer goods. October 1. The qua r te r ly l im i ts for au tho r ized banks on purchases of fore ign exchange for socially important consumer goods, i n c l u d i ng med ic ines, were e l im in a t ed. October 1. The un i f i ed ta r i f fs on food and non food items imported by na tu ral persons were reduced to 40% and 70%, respectively, and they could be paid in domestic currency. October 5. A positive l ist of consumer goods imports was in t rodu c ed. December 1. The surcharge imposed on imports of nonfood consumer goods by ju r id i c al persons was reduced to 10%. February 1. Econom ic en t i t ies were a l lowed to export goods and services for conve r t ib le currencies w i t h o ut prepayment or open ing an LC, prov ided the re is a guaran tee from the buye r 's banks or an insu rance po l icy p ro tec t ing export contracts against po l i t ical and com- mercial risks. April I. The surrender requ i rement for strategic goods was reduced to 50% f rom 100%. May 20. The export bans on e thano l, powdered m i lk, and tea were l i f t e d. January 1. A l im it of the equ iva lent of $750 a ca lendar qua r ter was established on pu r- chases of foreign exchange for personal use at fo re ign exchange bu reaus (p rev iou s ly, ac- cess to fore ign exchange by i n d i v i d u a ls was con f ined to travel expenses w i t h in l im i ts estab- lished by the CBU). April 1. The qua r te r ly l im it on purchases of fo re ign exchange for personal use at fo re ign exchange bu reaus was increased to the equ iva lent of $1,000. May 1. The documen ta t ion requ i rement for access to fo re ign exchange bu reaus was l im i t ed to a va l id passport. Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1052 UZBEKISTAN May 23. The quar ter ly l im it on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bureaus was increased to the equ iva lent of $2,000 from $1,000, consisting of up to $1,000 in cash and up to $1,000 in traveler's checks. June 3. The qua r te r ly l im it on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bu reaus was increased to the equ iva lent of $2,500, consisting of up to $1,500 in cash and up to $1,000 in t rave le r 's checks. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement June 16. Imports of consumer goods were effected at the OTC rate (previously, at the ex- change bu reau market rate). Imports and import payments January 1. The 10% surcharge on imports of nonfood consumer goods by juridical persons was e l im ina ted. January I. A quan t i ta t ive l im it for imports of specific consumer goods by natural persons for personal use was imposed, replacing a previous l im it of the equivalent of $1,000. January I. A 20% customs fee was imposed on nonfood consumer goods produced in third coun tr ies and reexported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of January 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11 ,1982. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Vanuatu is the Vanua tu vatu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The external va lue of the vatu is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions- weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies of Vanuatu's major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks U.S. dollars only. However, it also deals in Australian dollars; euros; Japanese yen; New Zealand dollars; and pounds sterling with other customers. The RBV quotes rates daily for the vatu against the above currencies. Buying and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted once a day within margins ranging between 0.25% and 0.30% around the m idd le rate. No. No. The RBV does not provide forward exchange contracts, but commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Vanua tu participates in the fo l low ing arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Ar- rangement, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, PARTA, and PICTA. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. n.r. n .r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 1053 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1054 VANUATU Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Approval requ ired n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts The decision to approve the convertibility of domestic currency accounts into foreign cur- rency is le ft to commercial banks. Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs For verification purposes, all appropriate documentation must accompany requests for for- eign settlement by commercial banks. The importation of frozen chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of rice, sugar, f lou r, canned f ish, and tobacco products. Yes. Bans are in effect for health reasons on imports of animals and animal products from Europe and the United Kingdom, as well as on chicken and poultry products from Australia and on some products imported from other countries. n.r. n.r. The RBV has the authority to restrict imports to the equivalent of US$250,000 an individ- ual. The import du ty structure consists of eight rates, ranging from zero to 25%, and the 25% rate applies to most goods. Effec t ive January 1, 2002, most basic items that were previously du ty free are subject to a 5% duty. Approved goods under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrangement, and the PARTA, PICTA, and PACER trade agreements may be imported duty free. These goods require certificates of origin issued to exporters and importers by the member countries. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 2003, a 35% duty applies to certain imported products under the pro- tected goods category, except for six items covered under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, to which a 40% du ty applies. Additionally, a 40% duty is applied on ice cream, f ru it ju ice, and soap, and duties of VT 26 and 280 a liter are applied to fuel and pa in t, respectively. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 1055 Exports and Export Proceeds n .r. n.r. n .r. The exportation of logs and flitches has been banned for environmental reasons. Under special circumstances, small parcels of logs may be exported if they cannot be processed by any company in Vanua tu. Any proposal to export logs requires approval of the Council of M in is ters. Export permits —the issue of which is coordinated by the Environmental Un it and Forestry Department —are also required for sandal wood and rare or endangered species. For conservation purposes, exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother-of-pearl, aquarium fish, crustaceans, and coconut crops, are subject to authorization. Exports of copra and cocoa are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodi- ties Marketing Board. Exports of kava may be undertaken by individuals, subject to au- thorization from the Quarantine Office. Exports of artifacts having a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to au- thorization from the Cultural Center. There are taxes on exports of logs, unworked shells, and wood in the rough, whe ther or not stripped of bark and sapwood or roughly squared. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers n.r. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors n .r. n .r. n.r. n .r. n .r. n .r. n.r. n .r. n .r. n .r. n .r. n .r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1056 VANUATU Other controls imposed by securities laws n .r. Imports and import payments Imports and import payments Changes During 2002 January I. Most basic items that were prev ious ly duty free were subject to a 5% duty. Ap- proved goods under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, the F i j i /Vanua tu Bilateral Trade Arrangement, and the PARTA, PICTA, and PACER trade agreements could be imported duty free, subject to presentation of certificates of origin issued to ex- porters and importers by the member countries. Changes During 2003 January 1. A 35% du ty was applied to certain imported products under the protected goods category, except for six items covered under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, to which a 40% duty applies. Additionally, a 40% duty was applied on ice cream, f ru it ju ice, and soap, and duties of VT 26 and VT 280 a liter were applied to fuel and paint, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA (Position as of February 28, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1976. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela is the Venezuelan bolivar. Venezue lan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not c ircu la te. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Effective January 1, 2002, the central rate and the band around it, adjusted annually, were set at Bs 758 per $1 and 10%, respectively (previously, Bs 700 and 7%), under a crawling band regime. E f fec t ive February 13, 2002, the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV) replaced the exchange band system and allowed the exchange rate of the bolivar to float freely with the CBV regularly intervening. Accordingly, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the cate- gory crawling band. Due to sharp exchange rate pressures beg inn ing January 2003 that led to a substantial ex- change rate depreciation and international reserve loss, the authorities pegged the exchange rate of the bolivar to the dollar, f ix ing the central bank buying and selling rates at Bs 1,596 per $1 and Bs 1,600 per $1, respectively (the CBV may adjust the exchange rate at any time, after consultation with the government). As a result, effective February 6, 2003, the exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to the category conventional pegged ar- rangement from the category managed f loa t ing with no preannounced path for the ex- change rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Effec t ive February 6, 2003, the use of foreign exchange among residents is not allowed, There is an arrangement with Malaysia. Payments between the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela and the other LAI A countries, and Jamaica may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the CBV. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Effective February 6, 2003, the Foreign Exchange Administration Commission (CADIVI) was established. International security restrictions No. 1057 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1058 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external public debt that is under l i t iga t ion. The CBV participates in, regulates, and executes operations in the gold market. The export of nonmonetary gold and its alloys in any form (other than jewelry for personal use) requ ires prior authorization from the CBV. The CBV may authorize the export of gold bars up to 85% of local production; the remainder is supplied to the domestic market. Imports and exports of banknotes are subject to prior authorization from the CBV. Yes. Exports of foreign currency above the equivalent of $5,000 are subject to declaration. Yes. Imports of foreign currency above the equivalent of $ 10,000 are subject to declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad No. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are not covered by the deposit insurance system. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No. Yes. These app ly on ly in cases of inheritance, preventive jud ic ial measures, and narcotic traf- f i ck ing activities. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Effec t ive February 6, 2003, the CBV sells foreign exchange to importers authorized by the CADIVI, subject to ava i lab i l i ty. Financing requirements for imports E f fec t ive February 6, 2003, authorization by the CADIVI is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports E f fec t ive February 6, 2003, prior authorization of the CADIVI is required for the purchase of foreign exchange. Authorization is granted on a discretionary basis and is subject to evidence of tax compliance and registration requirements. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Presh ipment inspec t ion Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1059 Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Some imports are subject to l icens ing for env ironmen ta l, health, or security reasons. Import licenses are also required on sugar cane, m i lk and its derivatives, and var ious types of oils and fats. Other imports paid for with foreign exchange granted by the CADIVI are subject to certification that the goods are not produced locally or are produced locally in in su f f i- cient quan t i t ies. Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense Ministry. Imports of nonm i l i- tary weapons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic A f fa i rs and Justice. The importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. A number of ag r icu l tu ral products (142 ta r i ff lines, or 2.12% of total l ines) are subject to tar iff quotas. Other nontariff measures There are m in imum prices for certain imports. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Community. The tar iffs on imported components for vehicles are 35% for passenger cars; 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles, except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 35%; and 3% for vehicle components. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that in- cludes exemptions from customs ta r i f fs. There are mu l t ip le trade agreements rang ing f rom free trade with Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru (the Andean Community), Chile, and Mexico to partial scope agreements with Argen t ina, Brazil, the CARICOM and the CACM, Cuba, Guyana, and Tr in idad and Tobago. There is a customs hand l ing fee of 1%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements E f fec t ive February 6, 2003, all fore ign exchange earn ings f rom exports, i n c l u d i ng export proceeds of the state pe tro leum company, must be surrendered to the CBV. Certain excep- t ions apply to oil exporters in that they may retain 10% of the proceeds for export-related expenses. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Authorization is granted on a discretionary basis and is subject to evidence of tax compli- ance, social security payments, and registration requirements. Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1060 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Indicative limits/bona fide test Inves tmen t-re la ted payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are l im i ts for expenses related to study abroad and medical expenses. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effec t ive February 6, 2003, conversion of proceeds in to domestic currency is allowed on ly th rough authorized dealers. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments E f fec t ive Feb rua ry 6, 2003, access to foreign exchange for cap i tal transac t ions is subject to au tho r iza t ion by the CAD IV I. On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase loca l ly by non re s iden ts Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks on the Caracas Stock Exchange but must in fo rm the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts Au tho r i z a t ion from the Com is ion Nac ional de Valores (CNV) is required. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Au tho r iza t ion from the CNV is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1061 Bonds or other debt securities E f fec t ive February 6, 2003, transac t ions of gove rnment bonds denom ina ted in foreign cur- rency in the secondary domestic market have been suspended. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au tho r iza t ion from the CNV is r equ i r ed. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is requ ired. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au tho r i z a t ion from the C NV is requ ired. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies There are some r e g u l a t i o ns for market par t ic ipan ts. All credit operations denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency to res iden ts from non res iden ts are subject to con t ro l. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Mass media, commun i c a t ion s, newspapers in Span ish, and p ro fess ional services are re- served for n a t ion al owne r sh ip. New inve s tmen ts do not requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the SIEX, but must be registered w i th the SI EX, and app roval is au tom a t i c a l ly granted if the new inves tment is cons is tent w i th n a t ion al leg i s la t ion. Foreign enterprises may establish sub s id ia r ies in the R e p u b l i ca Bo l iv a r i ana de Venezue la w i t h o ut p r ior au tho r iza t ion as long as they are cons is tent w i th the commerc ial code. The S IEX mus t, however, be no t if ied w i th in 60 wo rk ing days about n ew ly established subs id iar ies. Inves tment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Owners of d irect inve s tmen ts have the r ight to reexport the proceeds of l iqu ida t ion; how- ever, th e^S IEX checks the performance of the commitments of foreign investors in accor- dance w i th n a t ion al leg is la t ion. Under the deb t-equ i ty program, the registration of proceeds is allowed up to f ive years after the date of the last debt conversion. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Banks must report to the Superintendency of Banks on a mon th ly basis any transfer above $10,000, or its equ iva len t, to or from another country. Loans To residents from nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are con t ro l led when denom ina ted in fo re ign currency. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents These t ransac t ions are con t ro l led when denom ina ted in foreign currency. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are con tro l led when denom ina ted in foreign currency. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions These t ran sac t ions are con t ro l led when denom ina ted in foreign currency. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange E f fec t ive Feb rua ry 6, 2003, t ransac t ions i n v o l v i ng gove rnment bonds denom ina ted in for- eign currency in the secondary "domestic market have been suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1062 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are not subject to deposit insurance policy, Effec t ive April 8, 2002, a reserve requ irement of 15% (previously 17%) applies to deposits, obligations, and debit operations irrespective of the ho lder's residency status. The max imum open foreign exchange positions of commercial and universal banks and other authorized financial institutions are limited to 12% of their capital funds, and their max imum da i ly variations are limited to 12% of the ir foreign exchange positions. On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. The central rate and the annual adjustment band around it were set at Bs 758 per $1 and 10%, respectively. February 13. The CBV replaced the exchange band system and allowed the exchange rate of the bolivar to float freely. Accordingly, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category managed f loa t ing with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category crawling band. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 8. The reserve requ irement for deposit accounts in foreign exchange and for deposit accounts was reduced to 15% from 17%. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts February 6. The authorities pegged the exchange rate of the bolivar to the dollar. As a result, the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangements from the category managed f loa t ing w i th no preannounced path for the ex- change rate. February 6. The use of foreign exchange among residents was prohibited. Imports and import payments February 6. The CBV was permitted to sell foreign exchange to importers authorized by the CADIVI subject to availability. February 6. The CADIVI was established. Exports and export proceeds February 6. Authorization by the CADIVI was required for financing imports. February 6. Prior CADIVI authorization was required for purchases of foreign exchange. February 6. All foreign exchange earnings from exports, inc lud ing export proceeds of the state petroleum company, were required to be surrendered to the CBV. Certain exceptions were applied to oil exporters, who were allowed to retain 10% of the proceeds for export related expenses. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 6. Conversion of these proceeds in to local currency was allowed on ly through authorized dealers. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 6. Access to foreign currency for capital transactions became subject to au thor i- zation by the CAD IV I. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions February 6. The transactions of government bonds denominated in foreign currency in the secondary domestic market were suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of April 30. 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The cu r rency of V i e t n am is the V ie tnamese dong. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing w i th no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative W i th respect to the do l lar, the State Bank of V ie tnam (SBV) quo tes the da i ly average ex- change rate in the i n t e r b a nk market d u r i ng the p r ev ious bus iness day as the cu r rent inter- bank market rate; howeve r, banks may not quo te rates that va ry by more than ±0.25% from the rate quoted by the SBV (p r ior to J u ly 1, 2002, ±0.1 %). W i th respect to other currencies, banks and f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns may set t h e ir exchange rates at t h e ir discretion. No. No. The SBV permits commercial banks and some economic en t i t ies to en ter in to forward and swap transactions w i th ma tu r i t ies of 7 to 180 days. For transac t ions invo lv ing dollars, the rate is set by the commercial banks w i t h in ranges, i.e., the percentage depreciation of the spot exchange rate is set at the time of the s ign ing of the formal exchange contract and may vary according to the ma tu r i ty of the transac t ion. Economic entities may enter in to forward and swap transactions with commercial banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents may make paymen ts in fore ign currenc ies for ce r ta in t ransac t ions, Vietnam ma in ta ins b i la te ral payments arrangements w i th Belarus, Ch ina, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and Russia. Administration of control Exchange con trol is adm in is te red by the SBV. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in b u l l i on requ i res a l i c en s e, Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold b u l l i on and bars requ i re a license. 1063 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1064 VIETNAM Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Ind iv idua ls are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or D 5 m i l l ion, whichever is sma l ler. Ind iv idua ls must obtain the permission of the SBV to take out any excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or the equ iva lent of $3,000. For ind iv idua l s, amounts in excess of D 5 m i l l i on must be declared upon en ter ing Vietnam. For ind iv idua ls, amoun ts in excess of $5,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared to customs. For f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, SBV permission is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident organizations with foreign currency revenue originating from current transactions, capital transactions, or other stated sources are en t i t led to open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts at authorized banks for receiving and mak ing payments, remittances, and transfers in foreign exchange as specified by the SBV. Resident private individuals who receive foreign currency transfers from abroad through banks or who br ing foreign currencies into Vietnam and have a bordergate customs certifi- cation, together with other legal sources of foreign currencies, are entitled to open and ma in ta in foreign currency accounts at licensed banks. These accounts may be used for (1) receiving transfers from abroad for exports of goods and services or for assistance funds allowed by law; (2) receiving cash from abroad (certified by bordergate customs offices); (3) effec t ing transfers in foreign currency or account transfers for salaries, bonuses, dona- tions, inher i tances, and allowances in accordance with appropriate regulations; and (4) receiving other sources of foreign currency permitted by the SBV. The accounts may be used for (1) mak ing payments to organizations or ind iv idua ls abroad or in Vietnam that are allowed to receive foreign exchange for goods and services provided to organizations and ind iv idua ls in Vietnam who are allowed to invoice in foreign currency for certain goods provided and services rendered; (2) rem i t t ing foreign currency abroad for certain personal purposes; (3) selling foreign currency to credit institutions that are allowed to conduct for- eign exchange ac t iv i t ies; (4) w i thd raw ing foreign currency in cash for savings and other stated purposes; (5) investing in foreign currency-denominated securities; and (6) other stated purposes as specified by the SBV. Depositors are en t i t led to earn interest in foreign currencies and to w i thdraw principal and interest in foreign currenc ies. Resident enterprises operating in specified sectors that contract w i th foreign organizations may open and use foreign currency accounts overseas, subject to the submission of various documents to and ob ta in ing the approval of the SBV, to (1) fac i l i ta te the conduc t ing of current overseas transactions; (2) provide deposit security for international bid contracts; (3) conduct clearing transactions; and (4) meet the requ iremen ts of treaties, agreements, or commitments signed with foreign countries, foreign-financed enterprises operating in ac- cordance with the Foreign Investment Law of Vietnam, and certain credit institutions. Other organizations not engaged in the above-mentioned activities but w ish ing to open and use an overseas foreign currency account must obtain the approval of the prime m in is ter or the SBV. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1065 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonres ident organizations operating in Vietnam and nonresident organizations or individu- als opera t ing abroad that transfer foreign currency into the country upon entering Vietnam and hold the appropriate bordergate certification, or that carry other legal sources of foreign currency in to V ie tnam are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at li- censed banks. Holders of nonresident foreign currency accounts are permitted to make w i thd rawa ls in either foreign currency or dong. Nonresidents who have domestic currency converted from foreign currency and other legal income may open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget The budget is ind ica t ive on ly and not b ind ing. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas P r io r i t ies are assigned to certain types of imports. Highest priority is given to critical im- ports, such as pe tro leum products and fer t i l izer. Lowest priority is given to imports of goods that compete w i th domestically produced goods and imports of other consumer goods. No. Domestic f i rms are allowed to import any goods that are in line with commercial and cor- porate laws. Trading by foreign-owned firms may be carried out only in accordance with the registered business activity of the enterprise. Imports of certain products are controlled by other m in is t r ies for health, safety, and moral purposes. Prohibited imports are weapons, ammunition, explosives, and other military equipment; nonmed ical drugs and toxic chemicals; reactionary and/or pornographic materials; fire- works and ch i ld r en 's toys that detrimentally in f luence personality, education, social order, and safety; cigarettes (excluding limited quantities imported during personal travel); most used consumer goods; most used vehicles, including bicycles and motorcycles, and used vehicle parts; and some types of passenger vehicles. All import quotas are formally approved by the government. The Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), in coordination with the MOT, may also impose ad hoc temporary quan- t i ty controls. Imports of certain steel products, cement, fertilizer, petroleum products, and sugar are subject to quan t i ta t ive controls. In addition, imports of motorcycles and some types of cars w i th fewer than 16 seats require an import license from the MOT. Other non ta r i ff measures A broad range of add i t ional non ta r i ff measures exists. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import ta r i f fs range up to 50%, and there are 15 ta r i ff rates. Most imports of machinery, equ ipmen t, and med ic ine are exempt f rom ta r i f fs. Certain imports of foreign enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment, are also exempt from tariffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft drinks, cosmet- ics, and automobiles. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions apply to alcohol, cement, fertilizer, glass, granite and ceramic tiles, automobiles, motorcycles, paper, petroleum products, steel, sugar, and vegetable o i l. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All receipts or ig ina t ing from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1066 VIETNAM Surrender requ i remen ts E f f e c t ive May 1, 2002, all res ident enterprises are requ ired to sell 30% (previously, 50%) of the ir foreign currency earnings to banks. Nonprof it organizations are required to sell 100% of the ir fo re ign cu r rency earnings. On Ap r il 17, 2003, the surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30% (Dec is ion No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n .a. Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas' Export taxes Other export taxes P r o h i b i t ed exports are weapons, amm u n i t i o n, explosives, and other m i l i ta ry equ ipmen t; an t iqu e s; nonmed ical drugs and tox ic chem ica ls; t imber and t imber products from na tural forests; w i ld and/or rare n a t i ve an ima ls; and certain plants. State-owned f i rms w i th an a n n u al export turnover of more than the equ iva lent of $5 m i l l ion may ob ta in permanent direct foreign trading rights, while those w i th an annual export turn- over in the range of $2 m i l l i on to $5 m i l l i on may ob ta in temporary direct foreign trading r igh ts. Exports of rice, tex t i les, and garments in quota-regulated markets are subject to ad hoc quotas. Yes. Payments for Inv i s ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Inves tmen t - re la ted paymen ts Prior approval All t ransac t ions r e q u i re i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion from the MOF. Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted. Foreign enterprises are allowed to buy for- eign cu r r en cy f rom comm e r c i al banks to pay for th e ir current and other permitted transac- t ions. When commerc ial banks are not able to meet fo re ign currency demand, the govern- ment sells fo re ign cu r rency pa r t ia l ly or en t i re ly to enterprises whose foreign currency ba lance is met or supported by the au tho r i t ie s. P ro f it and d iv idend remittances are subject to a tax in the range of 3-7%, depending on the cap i tal c o n t r i b u t i on of the fo re ign inves tor. Indicative limits/bona fide test I n f o rm a t i on is not av a i l ab le on i n d i c a t i ve l im i ts for interest payments. Payments for travel Prior approval Perm iss ion from the SBV or an authorized bank is required for transactions invo lv ing amoun ts exceed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of $3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Pe rm i s s ion from the SBV or an au tho r ized bank is requ i red for transac t ions invo lv ing am o u n ts ex c e ed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of $3,000. Pe rm i s s ion from the SBV or an authorized bank is requ i red for transactions i n v o l v i ng am o u n ts exceed ing the e q u i v a l e nt of $3,000. Quantitative limits Ce r ta in t ransac t ions are sub ject to l im i t s. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requ irements Surrender requ iremen ts All proceeds o r i g i n a t i ng f rom cu r rent transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immed ia te ly. E f fec t ive May 1, 2002, all resident enterprises are required to sell 30% (previously, 50%) of t h e ir fore ign cu r r en cy earn ings to banks. Nonp ro f it organ iza t ions are requ i red to sell 100% of t h e ir f o r e i gn cu r r en cy ea rn ing s. On Ap r il 17, 2003, the surrender requ i rement was reduced to zero f i om 30% (Decision No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1067 Restrictions on use of funds Res tr ic t ions are the same as those applied to other foreign exchange holdings. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls are imposed on all transactions in capital and money market instruments and in co l lec t ive investment securities. On capital market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 20% of an issuer's current shares, of which each organization is allowed to hold 7% and each individ- ual 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 40% of an issuer's bonds, of wh ich each organization may hold 10% and each individual 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is requ ired. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts SBV approval is requ i red. Purchase abroad by residents. SBV approval is requ i red. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Enterprises are subject to annual overall external borrowing ceilings and the fu l f i l lment of certain other conditions. For short-term credit, borrowing enterprises must observe the required conditions of the SBV. For medium- and long-term credit, enterprises may sign contracts and then register the borrowing and repayment schedules w i th the SBV before disbursement, based on con- d i t ions required by the SBV. Borrowing contracts of state-owned enterprises must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1068 VIETNAM approved by the SBV. The borrow ing enterprises must report the borrowing and repayment schedu les to the SBV. F i n a n c i al c red i ts To residents from nonresidents The r e g u l a t i o ns g o v e r n i ng comme rc ial credits apply. Guaran tees, sureties, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es Yes. To residents from nonresidents SBV approval is requ i red for state-owned enterprises to borrow abroad under guarantees. Controls on direct investment Outward d i r e ct inv e s tm ent Inward direct inves tment Ou tward d i rect inv e s tm ent requ i res an MPI permit. Enterprises engaged in these invest- men ts must open an account w i th a bank w i th foreign exchange authorization and must register such accoun ts w i th the SBV. All related transactions must go through these accounts. The au tho r i ty to grant fore ign investment licenses is entrusted to the MPI for projects over $1 m i l l i on or its e q u i v a l e n t; for projects under $1 m i l l i o n, au thor i ty is granted by the pro- v i n c i al a u t h o r i t i es concerned. The forms of foreign inves tment are regulated by the relevant investment laws. Foreign enterprises and foreign partners are required to open specific fo re ign cu r rency accoun ts at au tho r ized banks for all capital transactions. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment n .a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase lo c a l ly by n o n r e s i d e n ts Land may not be owned by fo re ign inves tors and must be leased from the state. Controls on personal cap ital transactions G i f t s, endowmen ts, i n h e r i t a n c e s, and legacies The m a x im um amoun ts a l lowed for grants and inhe r i tances are the equivalents of $5,000 and $ 10,000, respec t ive ly. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. An em ig rant may t ran s fer or phy s i c a l ly export fore ign currency not exceeding $ 10,000 or the equ iva lent a year. For amounts exceeding $50,000, the l im it is 20% of the total transfer abroad. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of g am b l i ng and pr ize e a rn ings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad R eg i s t r a t ion w i th the SBV is requ i red. Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad SBV approval is r equ i r ed. L end ing to non re s iden ts ( f i n a n c i al or commercial c red i ts) Lend ing lo c a l ly in fore ign exchange R eg i s t r a t ion w i th the SBV is requ ired, Pe rm iss ion is granted to residents on ly for the fo l low ing: (1) borrowing to pay for imports of goods and services; (2) inves tment projects approved by the prime minister; (3) export projects invo lv ing manu fac tu r ing or trading; (4) borrowing under the terms of d iscoun t ing the export documen ts; (5) borrowing to repay external loans in advance that have been guaran teed by domestic cred it in s t i tu t ions and that meet certain criteria; and (6) borrowing by temporary guest workers in foreign countries as regulated by the SBV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position l im i ts VIETNAM 1069 The reserve requ irement on domestic dong and all foreign currency deposits is 5%. Effec- tive May 3, 2002, the reserve requirement on short-term foreign currency deposits was lowered to 8% from 12%. Effective December 1, 2002, the reserve requirement was further reduced to 5%, un i fy ing it with the rate for long-term foreign currency deposits. Credit institutions' lending rates must not exceed a base rate periodically announced by the SBV p lus margins specified by the SBV. The aggregate open position limit is 30% but the SBV may exempt banks from this limit in special circumstances (on October 7, 2002, the subceilings on individual currencies were removed; prev ious ly, the max imum l im it on open positions in ind iv idual currencies was 15%). Forward and swap positions are included in the calculation of open position limits. These regu la t ions apply to all authorized banks, except for jo in t -ven tu re banks and local branches of foreign banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors n .a. Other controls imposed by securities laws To sell or purchase listed securities at the stock exchange center, foreign organizations and ind iv idua ls are required to open a securities trading account denominated in domestic cur- rency and a securities custody account at a foreign custody agent. All payments for and receipts f rom securities transactions must be effected through these accounts. Foreign or- ganizations and ind iv idua ls may transfer their investment capital abroad only after a year these accounts were open. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement July 1. The band around the off ic ial rate at which participating banks may set their ex- change rates was widened to ±0.25% from a maximum upper limit of 0.1%. Exports and export proceeds May 1. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to 30% from 50%. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions May 1. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to 30% from 50%. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions May 3. The reserve requirement on short-term foreign currency deposits was lowered to 8% from 12%. October 7. The subceilings on ind iv idual currencies were removed. Previously, these were subject to a maximum l im it of 15% a currency. December 1. The reserve requirements on short-term foreign currency deposits was re- duced to 5% from 8%, un i fy ing it with that for long-term, foreign currency deposits. Changes During 2003 Exports and export proceeds April 17. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30%. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers April 17. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Currency The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni rial. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports The exchange rate of the rial is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. Yes. No. Exchange control authority is vested with the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). On April 1, 2002, the Yemeni authorities notified the IMF that the funds of listed individu- als and organizations associated with terrorism had been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of rial banknotes are prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Imports of rial banknotes are prohibited. 1070 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1071 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Tariff rates range f rom 5% to 25%. Some imports are banned for security, health, and religious reasons. Imports of used machinery and coffee are prohibited, and imports of certain f ru i ts and vegetables are subject to seasonal tar iff rates. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Currently, there are four tariff rates: 5%, 10%, 15%, and 25%. State import monopoly Imports of pe tro leum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports are registered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1072 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. Yes. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f f e r en t i al treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Short-term foreign loans by the public sector are prohibited. Approval by the Council of M in is ters is required for contracting medium- and long-term foreign loans by the public sector. Yes. No. L iqu ida t ion of direct investments is free for approved and registered projects. No. No. Foreign exchange deposits he ld at the CBY are nonremunerated. Commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations regarding currency exposure and to report their positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1073 Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 1. The Yemeni au tho r i t ies no t if ied the IMF of measures taken to freeze the funds of listed ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terrorism, in accordance with UN Secu- rity Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 19, 2002. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Zambia is the Zambian kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The off ic ial exchange rate is determined in the auction market and the spread between the Bank of Zambia's (BOZ) buying and selling rates is currently fixed at 1.6%, but may be adjusted within a range of 1-2%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assis- tance funds, and export earnings), the BOZ determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the market through the dealing window. Suppliers wishing to offload currency amounts in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 a week onto the foreign exchange market are required to do so through the BOZ's dealing window. Commercial banks are allocated foreign exchange at the marginal rate struck at the BOZ auction on behalf of suppliers. This rate is also the BOZ's buying rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Zambia is a member of COMES A, RIFF, and the SADC. No. No. Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require approval from the Min- istry of Mines. Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared for statistical purposes. 1074 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1075 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Trade in petroleum products requires a license. The license is granted by the Energy Regu- lation Board to all oil-marketing companies that undertake to adhere to specific guidelines pertaining to fuel up l i ft and import, pricing, and storage. Licenses for statistical purposes are also requ ired, but they are granted automatically by commercial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought in temporar- ily are exempted from this requirement. The M in is try of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade arrangements. There are restrictions on imports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and ivory. MFN tar iff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, there is a 5% import declaration fee. A number of products are subject to specific rates. Imports from COMESA countries are subject to a tar iff equ iva lent to 60% of the MFN tar iff. Some imports are exempt under the Investment Act. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1076 Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes ZAMBIA Export declarations are required for most goods (mainly for statistical purposes), and they are administered rou t ine ly by commercial banks under authority delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. There are restrictions on exports of firearms, ammuni- tion, and ivory. White maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the BOZ, pro- vided that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Commercial credits All borrowing must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Informa t ion on borrowing abroad must be submitted to the BOZ for statistical purposes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits of regula- tory capital are 15% and 10%, respectively. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits may be maintained within prudential limits as established in a written policy statement by the bank's or financial institution's board of directors. However, these exposure limits may not exceed 30% and 20%, respectively, of regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1077 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement April 19. Zambia accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of July 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe do l la r. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe do l lar is pegged de facto to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Z$55 per US$1. On November 30, 2002, all foreign currency bureaus were closed and currently only banks are licensed to deal in foreign exchange. On February 28, 2003, the mid-rates of the Zimbabwe dollar to the U.S. dollar were set at the rate of Z$824 per US$1 in the interbank market and Z$55 per US$1 in the foreign cur- rency pool managed by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ), in which the government buys and sells foreign currency. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of the 17 currencies free ly convertible through authorized dealers, with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Residents may convert domestic currency on ly to meet approved current account payments. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments RBZ approval is required for residents to convert domestic currency in order to make capi- tal payments. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Residents are not allowed to transact in foreign exchange, There are arrangements with Botswana, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Namibia, and South Afr ica. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Zimbabwe is a member of RIFF. Zimbabwe is a member of the COMESA clearinghouse. 1078 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1079 Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED). Authorized dealers have been empow- ered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or No person, either as principal or agent, may deal in or possess gold unless that person is trade (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of such employer or pr inc ipa l. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, posses- sion, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission may be issued by the Secretary for Mines only. Under the terms of the Gold Trade Act, three types of licenses may be issued: a gold deal- ing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. All gold obtained from a registered mining location must be lodged with a holder of a gold dealing license no later than the tenth day of every month, unless specific permission has been granted by the mining commissioner or the appropriate minister. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. The exportation of gold in unmanufac tured form is controlled and licensed by the M in is t ry of Mines; these controls do not apply to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intend- ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. Resident travelers may take out up to Z$50,000 (prior to November 14, 2002, Z$15,000). Nonresident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure, nonresident travelers may reconvert un- spent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certifi- cates. There are quan t i ta t ive limits on the amount of foreign exchange that resident travel- ers may export. Nonresident travelers may bring in up to Z$50,000 (prior to November 14, 2002, Z$ 15,000). Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but may be sold or exchanged through authorized dealers only. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts (FCAs) in one of the denomi- nated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Effective November 15, 2002, authorized dealers are required to buy 50% of all export and service receipts on behalf of the RBZ. The remaining 50% is deposited with the RBZ and remains available to the ex- porters for their own use. Corporate FCA holders —excluding FCAs for individuals, em- bassies, nongovernmental organizations, nonresident controlled companies and export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1080 ZIMBABWE processing zone (EPZ) companies that are who l ly financed from offshore sources—are entitled to the use of their foreign exchange for a period of 60 days and only for purposes specified on a p r io r i ty list. At the expiry of the entitlement period, the RBZ automatically buys the foreign exchange from exporters and sells it to authorized dealers to finance mar- ket operations. Funds withdrawn from FCAs and converted into local currency may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the amount of the initial investment and income or capital gains from investments in listed companies on the stock exchange or money market ac- counts. Gold producers and tobacco farmers may operate FCAs, which are credited with 20% of the ir export receipts in foreign currencies and which they may use to purchase imports. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency A resident may on ly convert funds in a domestic account into foreign currency when effect- ing approved current transactions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other non- resident accounts, or w i th payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonres ident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident ind iv idua ls may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of author- ized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds w i thdrawn f rom these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the in i t ial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may on ly convert domestic currency accounts into foreign currency when em igra t ing and tak ing out the ir surplus earnings. Yes. Only former residents res id ing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets he ld in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various ex- change restrictions. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ iremen ts Au thor ized dealers are not permitted to effect advance payments for imports exceeding the equ iva lent of US$50,000 w i thout pr ior RBZ approval. E f fec t ive May 20, 2003, advance payments for imports of up to US$100,000 were allowed. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documen ta t ion is submitted to and approved by the RBZ. Payments for imports may not be made in domestic currency through a local nonresident account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1081 Domiciliation requirements Yes. Other Imports of finished goods and raw materials for processing must be effected w i th in 14 to 30 days with payment, respectively (prior to May 20, 2003, 90 days). Approval is required for longer periods. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Effective November 15, 2002, an expanded priority list for foreign currency payments for which foreign exchange may be provided in the off ic ial market was introduced. The negative list for imports includes, in addition to items restricted for health or security reasons, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewe lry items. Yes. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maxi- mum of 70% for luxuries with a surtax of 10% on finished goods, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equivalent to the sales tax imposed on goods sold domestically. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. The maximum tariff rate is 100% and applies to 18 tariff items. Maize may be imported only by the Grain Marketing Board or by others with the permis- sion of the Board. Petroleum is imported by the Na t ional Oil Company, as well as by pri- vate companies under a license issued by the Ministry of Energy. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas The surrender requirement for export proceeds is 50% (prior to November 14, 2002,40%). The remaining 50% must be deposited at the RBZ and remains available to exporters for their own use for a period of 60 days. At the end of this period, the RBZ buys the foreign exchange from exporters and sells the proceeds to authorized dealers to finance market requirements. All export proceeds from tobacco are sold to the RBZ; 20% of the amount is set aside for the Tobacco Growers Trust and 80% is allocated to priority sectors. Twenty percent of export receipts for gold are paid by the RBZ to gold producers in con- vertible currency, which they may place in FCAs. Effective Ju ly 1, 2003, all exporters were granted a waiver on the 50% surrender require- ment applicable to the incremental portion of their export, calculated on a quarterly basis. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been received in an approved manner or w i ll be received w i th in three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in foreign currency transferred into Zimbabwe through the banking system, except when there are special arrangements. Yes. Yes. Export licenses are required for the fo l low ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac- tured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying l iqu ids or semiliquids; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1082 ZIMBABWE (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) armaments. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, inc lud ing maize, oilseeds, cheese, milk, seeds, potatoes, citrus f ru i t s, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, w i th in certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority; prior approval of the RBZ is required. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limits established for commercial banks are approved by the RBZ, which deals with each case on its merits. Required for payment of commissions. The limits for freight and insurance are 30% of f.o.b. value of goods transported, but for goods that are of exceptional volume in relation to value, up to 80% of the f.o.b. value may be approved. For commission, the following limits apply: (1) confirming commission—up to 2.5% of c.i.f. value; (2) buying commission —up to 5% of f.o.b. value; (3) foreign travel agents —up to 10% of sales; and (4) selling commission —up to 7.5% of f.o.b. value. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All investment-related transfers are subject to prior RBZ approval. Specific applications are submitted to authorized dealers for approval without reference to the RBZ. A corporation may be authorized to remit by way of dividends to foreign shareholders, including dividends due to former residents of Zimbabwe, up to 100% of the corporation's net after-tax profits, provided that an application for the remittance of a dividend is submit- ted to an authorized dealer w i th in 12 months from the end of the financial year in respect of which the dividend is payable. Yes. Yes. The basic foreign exchange allowance for nonbusiness travel is the equivalent of US$2,500 a year a person regardless of age, and that for business travel is the equivalent of US$1,000 a day (prior to November 14, 2002, US$500). In practice, owing to the foreign exchange shortage, foreign exchange is not readily made available for foreign travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittance of pensions of former residents is guaranteed under the constitution. With RBZ approval, foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secon- dary school level for certain diploma and degree courses. For medical treatment, the limit is the equivalent of US$20,000 a trip for the patient and one companion. A travel allowance up to the equivalent of US$250 a person a day may be allowed. For studies abroad, the limit is the equivalent of US$50,000 a year, and the annual limit is the equivalent of US$2,000 for alimony and child support payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Foreign workers' wages Expatriate workers may remit the ir mon th ly salaries, subject to RBZ approval. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Amounts of up to one-third of gross salary may be remitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1083 Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Credit cards may be used abroad for holiday travel, up to the equivalent of US$2,500, and for business travel, up to the limits set for those transactions. Yes. Yes. The annual limit for subscriptions for a company is the equivalent of US$20,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through the banking system and sold to author- ized banks within 60 days after being credited to an FCA. Effective November 14, 2002, a 50% surrender requirement applies to all invisible transactions. Restrictions on use of funds The use of these funds is limited to a specified priority list. Controls on capital transactions Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) us- ing currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. The initial invest- ment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted without restriction. For- eign investors may also subscribe for up to 35% of primary issues of bonds and stocks. Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase bonds and stocks from the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresident investors are allowed to sell their bonds and stocks in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1084 ZIMBABWE For investments prior to May 1993, under current legislation, disinvestment proceeds on the original amount of the investment qualify for remittances, but any capital appreciation that arises from revaluation of the investment goes to "blocked funds," which are then con- verted in to six-year bonds at a 4% interest rate and a variable ratio of remittances allowed, depend ing on the discount offered. However, if the amount of capital appreciation is small, it may u sua l ly be repatriated w i thout restriction. Effec t ive May 20, 2003, all unremitted pension funds and any fu tu re pension remittances may be credited to an interest-earning block account. These funds were also allowed to be invested in money market instruments and remitted freely. For investments made after May 1, 1993, current legislation dictates that proceeds from any disinvestment may be remitted w i thout restriction. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No der iva t ive transactions with foreign currency imp l ica t ions are permitted. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents E f fec t ive November 14, 2002, all foreign borrowing requires prior approval of the External Loans Coordination Committee; and RBZ approval. Gold producers undertaking new ex- pansion projects are permitted access to offshore f inanc ing in the form of gold loans. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are not permitted to provide credit to nonresidents without RBZ approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward d irect inve s tment These inves tmen ts r equ i re RBZ and MOFED approval on a case-by-case basis. Inward direct investment Direct foreign investment in various sectors is subject to the prior approval of the Zim- babwe Investment Center, norma l ly with the fo l low ing conditions: (1) up to 100% foreign owne rsh ip is allowed in the fo l low ing p r io r i ty sectors: manufac tur ing, mining, quarry and m ineral exploration, and development of hotels for tourism; (2) up to 70% foreign share- ho ld ing is permitted in specialized services such as management consultancy and construc- tion; and (3) a maximum of 35% foreign ownership (reserved sector list) is allowed in se- lected sectors where foreign investors wishing to participate may only do so in joint- venture partnership with Zimbabwean firms or ind iv idua ls. The reserved sector list is as fo l lows: pr imary produc t ion of food and cash crops; primary horticulture; game, w i ld l i fe ranch ing, and livestock; forestry; f i sh ing and fish farming; poultry farming; employment agencies; estate agencies; valet services; armaments manufac ture, marketing, and distribu- t ion; pub l ic water provision for domestic and industrial purposes; rail operations; grain mill products; bakery products; sugar products; tobacco packaging and grading; and tobacco products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants ZIMBABWE 1085 All foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since May 1, 1993, may be repatriated. In all cases, specific ap- plications must be submitted to the RBZ with respect to repatriation of capital. Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equ i ty is allowed for in- vestments effected before 1979. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000 a person or US$2,000 a family. In exceptional cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applications exceeding th is maximum. All those applying for emigrant status are required to liquidate their assets w i th in six months after emigrating and invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwe government external bonds. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred, provided that the funds that were used in betting were originally transferred into Zimbabwe in foreign currency. The first prize may not be remitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing abroad is subject to exchange control ru les and regulations and the approval of the External Loans Coordination Committee. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of accounts abroad is subject to exchange control ru les and regulations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is subject to exchange control rules and regulations, and is usually not permitted. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to exchange control rules and regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange There are rules that allow for differential treatment of local exporters and companies oper- ating in the export-processing zone. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls apply to mortgage rates of bu i ld ing societies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1086 ZIMBABWE Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Investment abroad by local banks in offshore entities is subject to exchange control approval. Acquiring equity by nonresidents in local banks listed on the ZSE is subject to the ZSE's rules and regulations. For banks not listed on the ZSE, these are subject to exchange control approval. Authorized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure limits. The net open position limits of foreign exchange dealers is the equivalent of US$2 million or 10% of their capital base, and their capital requirements are 5% (core/Tier 1) and 10% (total capital). On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Local institutional investors are not permitted to invest in securities registered offshore. Yes. Yes. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 40% of the total equity of the corn- pany, with a limit of 10% for one investor. These limits are in addition to any existing for- eign shareholdings in companies that existed prior to May 1, 1993. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Imports and import payments November 30. All foreign exchange bureaus were closed, and only banks were licensed to deal in foreign exchange. November 14. The maximum amount of domestic currencies that residents may take out of the country and the maximum amount that nonresidents may bring into the country were increased to Z$50,000 from Z$ 15,000. November 15. Authorized dealers were required to buy 50% of all export and service re- ceipts, on behalf of the RBZ. The remaining 50% was to be deposited with the RBZ and made available to exporters as an entitlement for their own use for a period of 60 days. At the expiry of the 60-day entitlement period, the RBZ automatically is to buy the foreign exchange from exporters and sell it to banks to finance market operations. November 15. An expanded priority list for foreign currency payments was introduced for which foreign exchange may be provided in the official market. Exports and export proceeds November 14. The surrender requirement was increased to 50% from 40%. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers November 14. The basic allowance for business travel was increased to the equivalent of US$ 1,000 from US$500 a day. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers November 14. All proceeds from invisible transactions were subject to a 50% surrender requirement. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations November 14. All foreign borrowings were made subject to approval by the External Loans Coordination Committee and the RBZ. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1087 Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement February 28. The mid-rates of the Zimbabwe dollar to the U.S. dollar were set at the rate of ZS824 per US$1 in the interbank market and Z$55 per US$1 from the foreign currency pool managed by the RBZ, where the government is the buyer or seller of foreign currency. Imports and import payments May 20. Advance payments for imports of up to the equivalent of US$100,000 were allowed. Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments May 20. The amount of time within which imports of finished and raw goods must be ef- fected was reduced to 14 and 30 days after payment, respectively, from 90 days. July 1. All exporters were granted a waiver on the 50% surrender requirement applicable to the incremental portion of their export, calculated on a quarterly basis. May 20. All unremitted pension funds and any fu ture pension remittances may be credited to an interest-earning block account. These funds were also allowed to be invested in money market instruments and remitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Mu l t ip le Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations 1089 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1090 APPENDIX Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1091 Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1092 APPENDIX Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1093 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1094 APPENDIX Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1095 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1096 APPENDIX Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Provisions specific to i n s t i t u t i o n al investors Other controls imposed by secur i t ies laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1097 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 