 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1979 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1979 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal To Members and Governors of the Fund June 21, 1979 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ransm it to you a copy of the In terna t ional Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1979, which has been prepared in accordance w i th the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. The Report continues, under a modified title, the series of Annual Reports on Exchange Restrictions published by the Fund since 1950. The change in its title was decided upon by the Executive Board in the light of the provisions on exchange arrangemen ts in Article IV, Section 2( a) under the Second Amendment of the Articles of Agreement, which came in to e f fect on April 1, 1978. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of member countries in the prepara t ion of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ J. DE LAROSIERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART ONE in Res tr ic t ive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Imports and Import Paymen ts Quan t i ta t ive Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxa- tion Advance Import Deposits Payments Arrears Other Measures A f fec t ing Import Pay- ments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements Capital Flows Gold III. Regional Arrangements Annex ; PART Two Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghan is tan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada : Cape Verde Central African Empire Chad Chile 3 8 8 8 10 12 12 12 13 13 15 17 18 19 23 24 29 32 33 36 39 43 48 52 55 56 60 63 68 71 73 74 81 83 86 89 91 92 95 98 Ch ina, Repub l ic of Colombia Comoros Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark D j ibou ti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Page 102 107 115 117 120 123 126 131 132 134 137 141 145 148 150 153 155 159 166 169 171 174 178 183 185 186 188 190 192 193 195 196 199 209 213 217 219 223 225 230 233 237 241 * The Fund has not received from the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1978. Vll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Kenya Korea Kuwait Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe CONTENTS Page Page 244 248 252 254 255 257 258 259 262 264 266 269 270 272 274 276 279 281 286 289 293 295 299 302 305 309 312 313 320 321 323 326 331 336 340 341 344 346 Saudi Arabia 348 Senegal 349 Seychelles 352 Sierra Leone 353 Singapore . 356 Solomon Islands 358/ Somalia 360 South Africa 363 Spain 368 Sri Lanka 373 Sudan 378 Suriname 381 Swaziland 384 Sweden 385 Switzerland 389 Syrian Arab Republic 392 i Tanzania 395 Thailand 397 Togo 400 Trinidad and Tobago 403 Tunisia 406 Turkey 410 Uganda 417 United Arab Emirates 420 United Kingdom 422 United States 431 Upper Volta 437 Uruguay 440 Venezuela 443 Viet Nam 445 Western Samoa 446 Yemen Arab Republic 448 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 449 Yugoslavia 451 Zaire 457 Zambia 461 Analytical Appendix 465 via ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT O NE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction: The world economic situation remained unsatis- fac tory in several impor tant respects d u r i ng 1978. Total produc t ion grew at below-average rates in many countries, inc lud ing most of the large industrial countries whose activities tend to set the pace for the world economy. For the indus t r ial countries as a group, the increase in real gross na t ional product (GNP) in 1978 is estimated at 33/4 per cent, the same as in the prev ious year. This ra te is appreciably below the 1962-72 average ra te of growth of about 4l/2 per cent, but is probably roughly in line with the current rate of increase in po ten t ial output. Among the non indus t r ial coun t r ies other than the ma jor oil expor ters, a somewhat s im i lar shor tfa ll of average grow th ra tes was also ev iden t. The slower growth rates we re associated w i th a sub s tan t ial unde ru t i l iza- tion of resources, i n c l u d i ng h igh levels of unemp loy- men t, and the emergence of p ro found s t ruc tu ral problems in many countries. This s i tua t ion was accen- tua ted by low ra tes of inv e s tm en t, s lugg ishness in the growth of wor ld t rade, the spread of pro tec t ion ist t rade measures, and the m a in t en an ce of res tr ic t ions on cu r r ent p aym en t s. These deve lopmen ts have been accompanied by a d i s t u r b i n g ly h igh ra te of price increase in m any coun t r ies. A l though subs tan t ial im p r o v em e nt in the average price pe r fo rmance of the i n d u s t r i al coun t r i es occurred f rom 1974 to 1976, f u r- th er progress s ince t h en on ba lance has been negligi- ble, w i th a resu rgence of i n f l a t i on occu r r ing in some of these coun t r i es in the ea r ly pa rt of 1979. Very h igh i n f l a t i on ra tes have also persisted in m any pr i- ma ry p r o d u c i ng coun t r ies. The g row th of world t r a de rema ined subdued in 1978, a f t er a sh a rp r e d u c t i on in the ra te of g row th in the p r ev ious yea r. In te rms of vo lume, wo r ld t rade grew at an e s t ima ted 5 per cen t, the same as the increase recorded in 1977, and well below the aver- age ra te of g row th of about 9 per cent in the period 1962-72. In t e rms of U.S. do l la r s, the va lue of world t r ade in 1978 rose at about the same ra te as in the p rev ious year. These global t r ends were accom- pan ied by a d ive rgence be tween the developed and d ev e lop ing c o u n t r i es w i th respect to t r a de pa t- t e rns and the te rms of trade. Despite some recovery toward the end of the yea r, m a r k et prices of p r im a ry commod i t ies dec l ined d u r i ng 1978, a f t er in c r e a s ing 1 Th is R e p o rt c en t e rs on ex ch ange a r r a n g em e n ts and exchange re s t r ic t ion s, but it also covers o ther m e a su r es and i n t e r g o v e r nm e n t al a r r a n g em e n ts t h at may h a ve b a l an ce of p aym en ts imp l i c a t ion s. The period covered is 1978 and, where poss ib le, the e a r ly p a rt of 1979. strongly in the previous two years; much of this decline resulted from a fall in prices of beverages. Wh i le export volumes rose at a faster pace in 1978 for the non-oil primary producing countries as a group, when compared with the previous year, both the developed and the developing countries in this group experienced a weakening in the terms of trade. The major oil exporters experienced a marked decline in their combined trade surplus in 1978 because of a sharp decline in the terms of trade and an appreciable fall in export volume; the terms of trade improved somewhat early in 1979 as a result of increases in oil prices. In 1978, the counterpart of the foregoing changes in terms of trade of pr imary producing coun- tr ies was a substantial improvement in those of the indus t r ial countries. There was a very sizable increase ( f rom approxi- ma te balance to US$28 billion) in the current account surplus of the industrial countries in 1978, a result wh ich included substantially enlarged surpluses by several countries, particularly the Federal Repub- lic of Ge rmany and Japan, and another large deficit by the Un i ted States. Among the non indus tr ial coun- tr ies, the combined balance of paymen ts deficit on cu r rent account for the non-oil developing countries rose again in 1978, a f t er a marked reduction from 1975 to 1977. This deficit is estimated at US$32 bil- lion for 1978, compared w i th US$21 billion in 1977 and a peak level of US$38 billion in 1975. The def ic it of th is group of countries is expected to rise f u r t h er in 1979. As a group, the non-oil developing coun t r ies obtained inflows of capital and other financ- ing assistance in 1978 that were considerably larger th an t h e ir combined cu r rent account deficit, permit- t ing sub s t an t i al add i t ions to the ir official reserves for the t h i rd consecutive yea r; the increase amounted to US$11 .5 b i l l ion in 1978. However, the d is tr ibu t ion of the combined def ic it among ind iv idual members of t h is g roup was un ev en, and a n um b er of these coun t r ie s, espec ia l ly in A f r ica, encoun tered severe problems of e x t e r n al financing. A few of the more developed p r im a ry p roduc ing coun tr ies also experi- enced d i f f i c u lt ex te rnal positions, despite the fact that the aggregate cu r rent account def ic it of th is group was ha lved in 1978 a f t er several years of severe bal- ance of paymen ts problems. The combined surp lus of the g roup of m a jor oil expor t ing countries fell f rom US$33 b i l l ion in 1977 to an estimated US$7 billion in 1978. The m a jor world currenc ies rema ined subject to su s t a in ed pressures in exchange ma rke ts du r ing the 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS period under review, albeit w i th va ry ing degrees of in tens i ty. As measured in te rms of the U.S. dollar, the market exchange rates of the currenc ies of coun- tries pa r t ic ipa t ing in the European common marg ins a r rangemen t2 con t inued, th rough March 1978, the upward movement wh ich had been evident in the closing mon ths of 1977. A f t er dec l in ing over the fo l low ing two mon ths, the m a rk et exchange rates of these currenc ies again rose sharp ly against the U.S. dollar. The movemen ts in the exchange rates of the currencies of other indu s t r ial coun tr ies in terms of the U.S. do l lar were more va r ied a l though, w i th the exception of the Canad ian dollar, the re was a general upwa rd movement in these exchange rates th rough October. The gain was especially ma rked in the case of the Japanese yen and the Swiss f r an c, but sizable increases were also registered by the French f ranc, the I ta l ian l i ra, and the pound s ter l ing. However, fo l low ing the announcement by the U.S. au tho r i t i es at the b eg inn ing of November of a number of meas- ures designed to suppo rt the U.S. dollar, there was a marked recovery of the U.S. dollar in the exchange ma rke ts th rough the first qua r ter of 1979. The mar- ket exchange ra te of the Canad ian do l lar, in terms of the U.S. dollar, followed a downward trend over much of 1978 but rose in the early part of 1979. There were some pa r t icu la r ly sha rp movements in the e f fec t ive exchange rates-'1 of a number of the currencies of ma jor indus t r ial countries dur ing 1978 and early 1979. These changes followed sizable, but less pronounced movemen ts in the effec t ive exchange rates of some of these currencies in 1977. The effec- t ive exchange rates of the Japanese yen and the Swiss f r a nc rose rap id ly du r ing the first ten months of 1978 and then eased slightly over the following mon ths. On average, the effective rate of the Japa- nese yen increased by 24.1 per cent in 1978, follow- ing a rise of 10.7 per cent in 1977; th is trend was reversed in early 1979, when the effec t ive rate of the 2 Be lg ium, Denma rk, Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, Ne the r lands, and ( u n t il December 1978) Norway. 3 Based on the Fund's mu l t i l a t e r al exchange rate model (M E RM ), in which the implicit weighting structure takes account of the relative importance of a country's trading par tners in its direct b i la te ral relationships w i th them, of compe t i t ive re la t ionsh ips w i th "third countries" in particular marke ts, and of estimated elasticities a f fec t ing trade flows. Changes in effec t ive exchange rates derived f rom MERM may d i f f er f rom estimated effective exchange rate changes based on changes in trade-weighted exchange rate indices for wh ich the relative impor tance of the exchange rate changes of pa r t icu lar coun tr ies is measured in terms of these coun- tries' shares in b i la teral trade of the coun try in question. 4 Japanese yen fell appreciably. The Swiss f r a nc rose by 23 per cent in 1978, a f ter increas ing by 2.9 per cent in 1977, and there were increases of 7 per cent and 4.8 per cent, respectively, in the e f fec t ive exchange rates of the deutsche ma rk and the Aus tr ian schilling in 1978. Smaller increases occurred in the e f fec t ive exchange rates of the Belgian f ranc, the Ne the r lands gu i lder, the pound sterling, and the Swedish k ron a, wh i le the e f fec t ive exchange rate of the French f r a nc registered no change over the per iod. On the o ther h and, the e f fec t ive exchange ra te of the U.S. dollar fe ll by 9.4 per cent dur ing 1978, fo l low ing a decline of 1.1 per cent in the pre- vious yea r, and the e f fec t ive exchange rate of the Canad ian dollar, a f t er reg is ter ing a decline of 8 per cent in 1977, fell by a f u r t h er 10.1 per cent in 1978. On average, the e f fec t ive exchange ra te of the Nor- wegian k rone also fell appreciably over 1978. The e f fec t ive exchange rate of the I ta l ian lira registered a modera te decline over the period. The Second Amendment of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, wh ich entered into force on April 1, 1978, brought in to effect the provisions of a new Ar t ic le IV wh ich stresses the objective of a "continuing development of the orderly unde r ly ing conditions that are necessary for f inanc ial and economic stability" and makes it an obligation of each member "to collaborate w i th the Fund and other members to assure orderly exchange arrangements and to promote a stable system of exchange rates." The principles and procedures for surveillance over exchange ra te policies endorsed by the Fund's In ter im Committee (In ter im Committee of the Board of Governors on the International Monetary System) and approved by the Executive Board in Apr il 19774 went into effect under the Second Amend- men t. In the commun ique issued at the conclusion of its meeting in Mexico City on Apr il 29-30, 1978, the In te r im Committee noted with approval that the Fund had recently adapted its consultation procedures and practices to take account of surveillance, and that particular attention would be focused on those cases in which there were questions as to whether the exchange rate policies of members were consistent with the agreed exchange rate principles. In this respect, the Interim Committee observed that the Fund has always concerned itself with situations in which the value of a currency is not compatible with the smooth 4 The decision of the Executive Board (Decision No. 5392- ( 7 7 / 6 3) adopted Ap r il 29, 1977) and the text of the memo randum, "Surveillance over Exchange Rate Policies," were reproduced in the 28th Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, pages 5-6 and 23-24. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION working of the ad ju s tment process, or where dis- orderly conditions exist in exchange markets. The Interim Committee noted that the Fund now has both the obligation and the means through surveillance to make a greater contribution than before to the effec- tive working of the exchange rate system. Under Section 2 (a) of Article IV of the amended Articles of Agreement, members incurred an obliga- tion to no t ify the Fund of the exchange arrangements they intend to apply in fu l f i l lment of their obligations under Article IV, Section 1. In addition, members are obliged to no t i fy the Fund promptly of any changes in the ir exchange arrangemen ts. The notifi- cations submitted by members in fu lf i l lment of these obligations fo rm the basis of the section on the Exchange Rate System in the survey for each mem- ber coun try appearing in Part Two of th is Report. During 1978 there were several rea l ignmen ts of exchange rates of currenc ies of the countries partici- pating in the European common ma rg ins arrange- ment. In February 1978 Norway established new intervention points for the Norwegian krone, repre- senting a depreciation of 8 per cent in terms of the value of the k rone vis-a-vis the SDR (as previously defined in terms of gold) which was used as a numera ire for establishing in te rven t ion points under the common margins arrangemen t. A fu r ther realign- ment of the exchange rates at which central banks stood ready to buy or sell currencies of countries participating in the European common margins arrangement took place in October 1978. The adjustment in exchange rates led to a shift, as measured by central rates, of 4 per cent between the deutsche mark and the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone, respectively, and 2 per cent between the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, the Belgian f ranc, and the Luxembourg franc, respectively. In December 1978 Norway discontinued its association with the arrangement. Following a meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the EEC countries5 ( the European Council) on December 4-5, 1978, an agreement was announced regarding the establishment of a European Monetary System (EM S )6 aimed at the creation of a zone of monetary stability in Europe. All EEC countries except the United Kingdom declared sub- 5 Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United Kingdom. 6 An extract f rom the text of the Resolution of the Euro- pean Council on the establishment of the EMS, which was issued on December 5, 1978, is reproduced in the Annex to Part One of this Report. See pages 29-30. sequently that they would participate in the exchange ra te and intervention system of the EMS. The United Kingdom stated that it might decide to jo in at a later date. It was also agreed that a European Mon- etary Fund would be established not later than two years f rom the commencement of the EMS. The func t ion ing of the EMS was to be centered on a European Currency Un it (ECU ), to be identical in value and composition to the European Unit of Account (EUA ). The currency of each member of the EMS would have a central rate in terms of the ECU, which would be used to establish a grid of bilateral exchange rates. The margin of fluctuations around these rates with respect to the currencies of pa r t ic ipa t ing countries was established at plus or m inus 2.25 per cent. EEC countries whose cur- rencies presently were not included in the European common margins a r rangement could, on a temporary basis, establish fluctuation margins of up to plus or m inus 6 per cen t; these marg ins would be gradually reduced as economic conditions permitted. Italy decided to make use of this option. The EMS would also expand the credit facilities within the EEC. Following a meeting of the European Council on March 12-13, 1979, the member countries par- t ic ipa t ing in the EMS informed the Fund that the system entered into force with effect from March 13, 1979. A number of ma jor policy actions affecting exchange rates were announced by the United States du r ing the period under review. In January 1978 the United States reaffirmed that it would intervene to the extent necessary to counter disorderly condi- tions in the exchange markets and that for this pur- pose it would utilize the Exchange Stabilization Fund of the U.S. Treasury and the US$20 billion swap network of the U.S. Federal Reserve System. In addition, a swap agreement was put into effect between the U.S. Treasury and the Deutsche Bundes- bank. In March 1978 the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany jo in t ly announced fu r th er steps to counter disorderly market conditions, including the use of an augmented swap agreement between the central banks of the two countries, and an arrangement by the U.S. Treasury for the sale of part of its holdings of SDRs to purchase deutsche mark. Following a period of strong pressure on the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange markets, the U.S. authorities on November 1, 1978 announced a series of measures. These included, in addition to a tighten- ing of domestic monetary policy, increases in the Federal Reserve Board's reciprocal currency (swap) 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS arrangements with the central banks of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Switzerland, and activation of the swap arrangement with the Bank of Japan; a purchase in the U.S. reserve tranche in the Fund; sales of SDRs; and plans to issue foreign currency denominated securities. In addition, the U.S. Treasury announced increases in the volume of mon th ly gold sales; these sales had been ins t i tu ted in May 1978.7 Dur ing the period under review, a number of other member countries adopted new exchange arrangements or modified the ir existing exchange arrangements. These changes reflected a continuation of the trend observed in recent years for members to adapt existing exchange arrangements to their own institutional circumstances and ind iv idual policy needs. Thus, there was a fu r th er reduction in the number of members m a i n t a i n i ng a fixed relationship between their currenc ies and ano ther denom ina tor. In o ther cases, increased flexibility in exchange arrangemen ts involved the use of w ider marg ins in respect of the peg of a currency to a composite of o ther currenc ies. In add i t ion, several members began to declare o f f ic ial ma rket exchange rates for up to one year in advance, based p r ima r i ly on an t ic ipa ted va r ia t ions in in f la t ion rates at home and abroad. At the end of March 1979, 61 members pegged the ir currenc ies to ano ther currency, of wh ich 40 were pegged to the U.S. dollar, 14 to the French f r an c, 3 to the pound sterling, and 4 to other currencies. Ano ther 12 cu r renc ies were pegged to the SDR, wh i le a f u r t h er 20 ma in ta ined a fixed re la t ionsh ip between the ir currencies and ano ther cu r rency com- posite. Four members were periodically ad ju s t ing the exchange va lue of the ir cu r renc ies by small am o u n ts according to a set of ind ica tors and 8 mem- bers were m a i n t a i n i ng cooperative exchange arrange- men ts w i th in the European Mone tary System. The r em a i n i ng 32 members had o ther exchange arrange- men ts. A classification of members' exchange a r rangemen ts is shown in mon th ly issues of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund's International Finan- cial Statistics. Last year's Report noted that in response to the large paymen ts imbalances occu r r ing in the wake of the oil and other price increases of 1973 and the subsequent wor ldw ide recession, most Fund members generally had been successful in l im i t ing recourse to trade and paymen ts res tr ic t ions for ba lance of 7 In Ap r il 1979 the U.S. T r e a su ry announced that the vo lume of gold sales wou ld be reduced f rom 1,500,000 ounces a mon th to 750,000 ounces a mon th. 6 payments reasons. Nevertheless, there had been a perceptible increase in pressures for protection in many countries in recent years. These pressures continued dur ing 1978 and early 1979, with no evidence of any significant change in the overall trade policies of the developed countries. Some of these countries introduced new or intensified existing restraints on imports during this period. There were also a number of other developing countries in which restrictions on current payments and transactions were continued or intensified. During this period, however, a number of developing countries libera- lized trade and payments restrictions in response to an easing of balance of payments difficulties and in some of these cases the liberalization took place in association with financial programs supported by use of the Fund's resources. The continued use of restrictive trade policies by some of the major trading nations during the period under review resulted partly from cyclical factors, particularly the persistence of high levels of unemp loyment and lower rates of economic ac t iv i ty, but also reflected longer-term problems of s t ruc tu ral ad jus tmen t. Some of these problems were compounded by increased competition from imports in key indus tr ial sectors, and the emergence of some developing countries as important competitors in a w iden ing array of products. Significant measures of protection were in evidence in such sectors as steel, shipbuilding, textiles and clothing, and a va r ie ty of other manu fac tu res, especially consumer electrical goods. In one or more of these fields, the EEC, the United States, and Canada as well as some o ther developed countries ma in ta ined or introduced new measures of import res tra int a f fec t ing trade among the developed countries —particularly trade between a number of these countries and Japan— as well as t rade w i th the developing countries. How- ever, du r ing the period under review Japan signifi- can t ly liberalized its imports. In general, the methods and ins t rumen ts of restrict- ing trade rema ined largely unchanged, and continued to involve cost and quan t i ta t ive res tra in ts on imports. There were instances of resort to restrictions which va ry au toma t ica l ly in severity w i th the un it cost of impor ts — thereby applying more severely to "low- cost" imports —or the degree of import penetration. There was also con t inued use of export restraint agreements negotiated bilaterally between trad ing p a r tn e r s. The w iden ing application by many devel- oped coun tr ies of the various forms of import res t ra int men t ioned above is a ma t ter for serious ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION concern. Such measures fail to address the funda- mental problems of structural change, and over time tend to become entrenched, thereby imparting a strongly negative bias to prospects for growth in world production and trade. The rise in protec- tionism has had a deleterious effect on the efforts of those developing countries seeking to enhance economic growth through outward-looking economic policies. An early reversal of recent protectionist trends is necessary for an improved performance in the world economy and the Fund therefore attaches great importance to the effective implementation of the agreements resulting from the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN ). Several of the developing countries which intro- duced measures to liberalize their trade and payments systems during the period under review had been relying heavily on restrictive external policies to buttress weak balance of payments positions and to support medium-term to long-term development plans. As payments pressures eased in these coun- tries, the opportunity was taken to adopt more open economic policies in the external sector. Most of the developing countries which registered significant progress in liberalization were in Asia and, to a lesser extent, in Latin America. In contrast to these favorable developments, there were a number of other developing countries, many of them in Afr ica, which experienced increasing problems in financing widening current account deficits and which found it necessary to continue, and in some instances to extend, reliance on exchange and trade restrictions. In a disconcerting number of cases, these develop- ments led to a substantial accumulation of payments arrears, with damaging effects on partner countries. Restrictions arising from these arrears have a particu- larly negative effect on a coun try's s tand ing in world financial markets, thereby render ing more d i f f icu lt their task of restoring a sound balance of payments management. The w iden ing spread of arrears reflects in most cases internal in f la t iona ry developments and, as indicated above, inadequa te balance of paymen ts management. But in some cases it may also be the consequence of unexpected price movemen ts in world markets. The Tokyo Round of the MTN which opened in September 1973 under the auspices of the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade (GATT) reached its final phase in Apr il 1979 w i th the opening for s igna ture of a proces-verbal, w i thout time limit. The outcome of the Tokyo Round signals a ma jor liberali- zation of trade and includes provision for the removal of some of the existing obstacles to trade and reinforcement of the framework for the conduct of international trade. The principal results of the MTN are an average reduction of about one third in the level of all industrial duties taken together if measured on the basis of customs collections, and agreement on a number of codes of conduct and arrangements designed to clarify and strengthen existing trade rules. The new MTN codes relate to subsidies and countervailing duties, customs valua- tion, government procurement, technical barriers to trade, and import licensing procedures. With respect to agriculture, the MTN provide for a number of bilateral market access commitments, and interna- tional arrangements on bovine meat and dairy products. The code on multilateral safeguards is still under negotiation. Common elements of most of the above codes and arrangements are improved procedures for notification, consultation, surveillance, and for the settlement of disputes. An important result of the Tokyo Round is the provision of a legal basis for the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP ), for preferential trade relations among devel- oping countries, and for other forms of special d i f fe r- ential trea tment for these countries, including special treatment for the least developed countries. How- ever, some developing countries have expressed the view that progress in certain areas of the Tokyo Round has fallen below the expectations of the developing countries. These qualifications have been related to nontariff barriers such as quantitative restrictions, and such areas as customs valuation and administration of an t idump ing regulations. In some of these areas, the developing countries have put fo rwa rd alternative proposals. In June 1978 the Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD )8 and member governments of the OECD renewed, for a fu r th er year, the trade declaration first adopted in May 1974 which called for the avoidance by the par t ic ipa t ing countries of use of trade restrictions for balance of paymen ts purposes. In renewing the Declaration, the Council noted that the economic situation in the countries of the member governments of the OECD d iffered in some respects from that which prevailed when the Declaration was adopted, and emphasized that difficulties now present in these 8 Member coun t r ies of the OECD are Australia, Austria, Be lg ium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Re- pub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS countries continue to be a source of tension in the trade field, leading to the risk that un i la teral trade and other measures a f fec t ing the current account of the balance of payments could touch off a chain reaction of protectionism. Adaptations of policies on capital flows among the indus t r ial countries du r ing the period under review were associated, as in other recent years, w i th a t temp ts by some countries to prevent excessive instability in exchange marke ts and depar tures f rom domestic policy objectives. Such measures as were introduced were of short du ra t ion as pressures on the exchange ma rket eased. For some of the other developed countries, however, changes in policies on capital flows reflected longer-term considerations, in some instances being designed to encourage capital in f lows and in other cases to relax controls on out- flows. The developing coun tr ies in general sought to fac i l i ta te inf lows of capital and to encourage the deve lopment of in s t i tu t ional arrangemen ts fac i l i ta t ing such inf lows. In a few instances controls on inflows were tightened in support of domestic mone tary policy or management of external debt. In 1978 and early 1979 there was f u r t h er progress in regional economic cooperation. In addition to the establishment of the European Monetary System, described above, developments in Europe included progress in the negotiations by several countries on the ir application to jo in the EEC. Under some other regional arrangements, f u r t h er steps were taken to reduce barriers to trade. A description of the main developments in regional arrangemen ts between members is g iven in Section III, below. Dur ing the period under review, six countries, Cape Verde, D j ibou t i, Dominica, Maldives, Solomon Islands, and Su r iname became members of the Fund, b r ing ing the membersh ip to 138 coun tr ies. Two countries, Seychelles and Sur iname, accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, raising to 47 the number of members that have fo rma l ly accepted these obligations, while four new members, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives, and Sao Tome and Principe, informed the Fund that they were availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, Section 2. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Imports and Import Payments a. Quantitative Import Controls The application of new or the intensification of existing quantitative barriers to imports in the 8 developed countries was generally related to con- tinued changes in the international competitiveness of particular industries, notably in regard to steel, textiles, transpor ta t ion, equ ipmen t, and certain dura- ble consumer goods. The EEC's restraint measures on steel imports came into effect on Janua ry 1, 1978. The measures consisted ma in ly of the establishment of basic reference prices9 for steel imports, based on the lowest production costs in an exporting country in which the EEC deems "normal conditions of competition" to exist, and an arrangement for the levy ing of provisional an t idump ing duties should the actual import price be lower than the basic reference price. Moreover, dur ing the year, the EEC con- cluded bilateral agreements w i th most major steel expo r t ing coun tr ies, specifying the quan t i ty of exports to the EEC and containing commitments on the observance of the EEC rules regarding basic prices.10 The agreements w i th state-trading countries provide for specified qu an t i t a t ive limits, those with EFTA coun tr ies aim at ma in ta in ing traditional trade flows, wh i le the arrangemen ts with non-EFTA market economies include under tak ings by the respective expo r t ing countries to respect the traditional product mix of exports and their d is tr ibu t ion among regions. In addition to the measures applied through the EEC, the U.K. authorities, as f rom February 1, 1978, l im i ted imports of iron and steel products f rom Romania to those under individual licenses, and imposed a prohibition on steel imports f rom the U.S.S.R. The EEC also concluded bilateral export restraint agreements with several countries, introducing and, in some cases, extending quantitative restrictions on impor ts of textiles and clothing items under the Mu l t if iber Arrangement (MFA ). Similar agreements were concluded by the EEC with a number of countries not par t ic ipa t ing in the Multifiber Arrange- ment. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of shirts and cotton yarn from Colombia, Egypt, India, Macao, Morocco, Pakistan, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey, which were applied unilaterally by the EEC f rom July 1977 to December 1977, were replaced 9 The compulsory base price applicable within the EEC and to transactions in those countries of the European Free Trade Association—EFTA (Austria, Finland, Iceland, Nor- way, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland) with which the EEC has concluded free trade agreements for products of the European Coal and Steel Community. 10 Provisional an t idump ing duties introduced in January 1978 were subsequently suspended in respect of countries with which the EEC had concluded bilateral export restraint agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES in the latter month by other measures that were in turn l if ted in April 1978, w i th the exception of those that were incorporated in bilateral agreements or considered jus t i f ied under safeguard clauses con- tained in prevailing EEC trade agreements with individual countries. In June 1978 the EEC con- firmed certain restrictions on textile imports f rom state-trading countries, and in July 1978 quan t i ta t ive restrictions for 1978 were imposed by the EEC on imports of wool cloth from Argentina. In July 1978 EEC imports of specified textile products f rom Greece were made subject to quan t i ta t ive limits in Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. The United Kingdom in July 1978 also introduced quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of certain clothing items f rom the Philippines; in September 1978 similar restrictions were extended to Singapore. Among other European countries, Aus t r ia con- cluded agreements establishing quan t i ta t ive ceilings on imports of certain textiles f rom India, Korea, and Macao; on the other hand, quan t i ta t ive controls on textile imports f rom Egypt were replaced by a con- sultation clause in the event of d isrup t ion of the Aus tr ian market. No rway reached agreements on limits for imports of textiles f rom six impor tant exporting countries and imposed quotas on imports of the most important textile products f rom sources other than the EEC and EFTA countries. Sweden concluded export restraint agreements dur ing 1978 with a number of textile exporting countries; in February 1978 Sweden also introduced a system of mandatory licensing of steel imports, for surveillance purposes. The trigger price system for steel imports announced by the U.S. authorities in December 1977 came into effect in February 1978. Under th is sys- tem, the U.S. au thor i t ies mon i tor prevailing import prices and initiate investigations to determine whether dumping has taken place whenever import prices are below the established trigger prices.11 The trigger prices are calculated on the basis of the cost of production in Japan, which is deemed to be the most efficient producer of steel. At the end of 1978, over 80 steel items were covered under the system, compared with fewer than 20 items in February 1978. The United States in August 1978 also 11 In the last quarter of 1978, the U.S. authorities initiated the first investigations under the trigger price mechanism. On February 1, 1979, the U.S. Treasury made a tentative determination that steel imports f rom Poland were being sold at "less than fa ir value." introduced new rules for determining when import sales to the United States by nonmarket economies could be deemed to have been made at less than fa ir va lue: the principal criteria are the prices of comparable products in other countries at similar levels of development, or, when such comparison is not available, the cost of production calculated on the basis of import values in market economies, or the price of competing U.S. products. As regards textiles and clothing, the United States during 1978 renewed expiring bilateral export restraint arrange- men ts, or concluded new ones under the Multifiber Arrangemen t; this arrangement covers 80 per cent of U.S. imports of textiles and clothing. Toward the end of 1978, the United States concluded trade res tra int agreements in respect of exports of tele- vision sets by the Republic of China and Korea; in September 1978 it also signed a res tra int agreement on exports of footwear by Hong Kong. Import quotas applied by the United States on specialty steel products were renewed dur ing the year, w i th slight modifications. The quota on beef imports into the United States established under an export restraint agreement was raised in June 1978. In Canada, interim global quotas on clothing imports were extended from February 1978 until the end of the year. These were replaced by bilateral agreements concluded by Canada w i th the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, Korea, the Philippines, Poland, and Romania, thereby making exports of textile items to Canada subject to quan t i ta t ive limits with effect f rom Janu- ary 1, 1979. Japan, on the other hand, removed quota controls on some agricultural goods and anthracite coal, and increased import quotas for beef and citrus products. In March 1978 Japan also announced a special financing program for increased imports of petroleum, aircraft, and certain metal products. There was a tightening of quantitative import restrictions within the group of more developed pri- mary producing countries. Australia in mid-1978 imposed quantitative restrictions on imports of sheets and plates of steel and specified iron and steel products as well as on wool worsted yarns. Finland imposed a licensing requirement on imports of certain iron and steel products and introduced minimum import prices for some textiles. In Greece, import licensing requirements were introduced for a number of products such as fresh and frozen meat, tires, and certain types of cotton, wool, and synthetic yarns and fibers, while the import of paper was freed 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS from licensing requirements. New Zealand made imports of sugar subject to special authorization. On the other hand, Spain in July 1978 liberalized imports of a few equipment goods previously subject to quota. In several developing countries, steps were taken in varying degrees to liberalize import regimes. India, Korea, and Sri Lanka made notable progress in import liberalization, reflecting improvements in their external paymen ts positions and /or on-going adapta- tions in development strategies. India in April 1978 simplified its import licensing system and increased the coverage of the open general licenses; Korea removed all goods from the list of prohibited imports, transferred a large number of commodities to the automatic approval list, and abolished the system whereby the import of certain items solely for domes- tic production was linked to the f irm's export per- formance; and Sri Lanka deleted a number of basic inpu ts such as newspr int and paper, fer t i l izer, sugar, and cer ta in base metals from the list of import items subject to prior licensing. Several other developing coun tr ies eased quan t i ta t ive import restrictions. Bangladesh expanded the scope for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme,12 and Barbados l if ted import licensing requ iremen ts for a large number of goods, wh i le in t roduc ing such requ iremen ts for a few others. Colombia liberalized the regime of minor impo r ts in J a n u a ry 1978 but added some commodities, including j u te and sisal, to the list of goods requ i r ing prior import licenses. Egypt in June 1978 increased the number of goods covered by the open general license to about 10 per cent of total imports. F i ji freed some iron and steel products f rom import licensing requ iremen ts, but lowered the import quota on passenger cars and imposed a quo ta on imports of cer ta in other types of motor vehicles. Mexico du r ing 1978 continued to e l im ina te import licensing requ i remen ts for a w ide range of commodities; for certain other items, however, quan- t i ta t ive restrictions were extended on a tempo ra ry basis. Automatic licensing for all permitted impor ts f rom countries other than Ind ia was in troduced in Nepal in March 1978; at the same time, however, impor ts of a few commodities were res tr ic ted. Other countries wh ich liberalized the impor ta t ion of some items included Chile, Pak is tan, and Paraguay. 12 Und er th is scheme, Bang ladesh n a t ion a ls and persons of Bangladesh o r ig in who are wo rk ing abroad are pe rm i t ted to open fo re ign cu r rency accoun ts denom ina ted in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be debited, in ter a l ia, for paymen ts for specified imports. 10 A number of other developing countries, however, took steps to tighten quantitative import restrictions. In July 1978 Dominica imposed import licensing requirements on many clothing items. Ethiopia issued a list of commodities, mainly consumer goods, for which no official sale of foreign exchange would be made. Iraq in February 1978 restricted imports from the Federal Republic of Germany by the public sector and in July of the same year banned most imports f rom the United Kingdom. In February 1978 Kenya imposed a ban on imports of textiles which are close substitutes for those domestically produced; to protect domestic production, Liberia in April 1978 prohibited the importation of sugar. Malta imposed licensing requirements on imports of a large number of goods and prohibited imports of textiles f rom the United Kingdom. Morocco expanded the list of prohibited goods and imposed tighter import licensing requirements or quotas on several other import items. Nigeria in April 1978 added a large number of items to the list of prohibited goods and imposed tighter import licensing require- ments on several other commodities. In addition to placing a quota on imports of refined coconut oil, the Philippines restricted the importation of parts and components of television and radio equipment. Senegal made imports of most textiles and certain other goods subject to licensing, and prohibited imports of used cars. In Thailand, imports of certain motor cars and motorcycles were prohibited. Vene- zuela prohibited imports of certain passenger cars and consumer goods, but eased the import prohibi- tion for some investment goods as part of the process of imp lemen ta t ion of the Andean Pact. Zaire tightened recourse to imports without purchase of fore ign exchange if such imports gave rise to repay- ment obligations or involved luxury items. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation There was no clear worldwide or regional trend w i th respect to the introduction or use of import surcharges du r ing the period under review. While some coun t r ies reduced surcharges or increased exemp t ions, an approximately equal number of coun t r ies in troduced new or raised existing sur- charges. W i th effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1978, Bolivia ex tended the system of import surcharges to imports of whea t. In a j o i nt move, Botswana, Lesotho, South A f r i c a, and Swaziland in March 1978 reduced the surcharge levied by the ir customs union from 15 per cent to 12.5 per cent. In April 1978 Iceland exempted imports of trac tors and trucks f rom the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 25 per cent customs surcharge. In May Peru imposed a temporary surcharge of 10 per cent, valid until December 31, 1978, on all imports except food, fertilizers, pharmaceutical products, and imports under regional trade agreements. Portugal in Octo- ber 1978 reduced from 30 per cent to 20 per cent the surcharge applying to about 30 per cent of 1977 imports. In March 1978 Tunisia imposed a special tax, ranging from 5 per cent to 300 per cent, on imports of a wide range of consumer goods. Turkey in January 1978 raised the stamp duty on all imports from 9-9.25 per cent to 22.5-25 per cent. In Uruguay, the highest import surcharge rates were reduced from 150 per cent to 110 per cent and from 110 per cent to 90 per cent, with effect from January 1, 1979. There were a number of countries which made important tariff reductions dur ing the period under review. Among the developed countries, reductions or exemptions in import ta r i f fs were made by France in respect of agricultural products imported from the EEC. Japan in March 1978 unilaterally lowered ta r i f fs on 318 tariff items, representing about 4 per cent of 1976 imports, by a weighted average of 23 per cent, in advance of the conclusion of the Tokyo Round. These reductions included the elimination of duties on automobiles. In Norway, ta r i f fs were lowered on imports of agricultural products from the EEC and the EFTA. Among the more developed p r ima ry producing countries, New Zealand in July 1978 introduced a new customs tariff fea tur ing a reduction of the overall level of tariff protection. Spain reduced import ta r i f fs on nonagricultural goods subject to duties greater than 10 per cent and established quotas free of import duties for coal and a number of steel products and other goods. Within the group of developing countries, Argentina reduced import duties on a large number of manu fac tu res. With the introduction of a new tar iff in February 1978, Benin suspended customs duties while con- t inu ing to apply fiscal import duties. Chile continued to make tariff reductions as part of a program to reduce all import ta r i f fs to a un i fo rm level of 10 per cent by mid-19 79. Import duties on certain in termed ia te and capital goods were reduced in India, and Indonesia allowed import du ty reductions and exemptions for raw materials and certain other goods. In Mexico, the elimination of licensing requirements in Janua ry and June 1978 for a large number of imports was accompanied by increases in import duties on many of these items; in September, however, duties were lowered on a number of agricultural, forestry, and fishing products. Uruguay lowered the basic rate of customs du ty and exempted many agricultural products from import levies. Import duties were increased in a number of member countries. Canada revoked the temporary tariff cuts for specified food items and certain other consumer goods, and withdrew the preferential tariff rates for some imports from Ireland and the United Kingdom, while extending other temporary tariff cuts. The United States increased tariffs on some metals and metal products. Australia introduced temporary additional duties on imports (other than from New Zealand) of wool worsted yarns exceeding certain quota levels, polyester, and certain finished goods already subject to tariff quotas or import licensing; it also introduced new or higher import duties on certain electrical equipment and steel products, while announcing a phased reduction or the elimina- tion of duties on machine tools. Iceland raised the licensing fee for imports except petroleum from 0.1-0.5 per cent to 1 per cent with effect from January 1, 1978, and in May 1978 introduced a temporary equalization tax of 3 per cent on imports of certain manufactures. Among the developing countries, Bolivia raised import taxes on selected items, mainly motor vehicles. Iran raised import taxes on a large number of goods primarily for revenue purposes, and Malawi introduced a 5 per cent tariff on imports of capital goods. In Morocco, the special import tax was raised f rom 8 per cent to 12 per cent; in addition, customs duties were increased on imports of textiles, shoes, and fu rn i tu re. Peru in May 1978 reduced import duty exemptions for imports of capital and intermediate goods. Saudi Arabia increased duties on imports of certain manu- factures for which there were domestically produced substitutes. In Thailand, a special import fee was imposed on imports of certain intermediate goods, and import t a r i f fs were raised on specified luxury goods. Developments relating to the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) dur ing the period under review included the addition by the United States of 133 items to the list of goods eligible for duty-free trea tment under the system; this move was, however, partly offset by the removal of 95 other items from the list. Dur ing the year, Australia and New Zealand included the People's Republic of China among the countries eligible for GSP benefits, and Norway extended GSP privileges to Bulgaria. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS c. Advance Import Deposits During the period under rev iew, four countries abolished their advance import deposit schemes and several others lowered the applicable rates and increased exemptions under the ir import deposit schemes. On the other hand, six member countries introduced advance import deposit requirements, mainly as a result of de te r io ra t ing ex ternal paymen ts positions. Bu rund i, Indonesia, Mau r i t ius, and New Zealand abolished the ir advance impo rt deposit requ iremen ts du r ing 1978. In Janua ry 1979 Bolivia exempted certain imports under the Andean Pact f rom advance import deposit requirements. Du r ing 1978 Brazil exempted a few specified items, inc lud ing soybeans, f rom the impo rt deposit scheme. As part of the liberalization measures in troduced in J anu a ry 1979, Brazil reduced the 100 per cent advance import deposit requ i rement by 10 percentage points and announced its in ten t ion to abolish the scheme, th rough reduc t ions in sem iannual steps of 10 per cent, by mid-1983. Chile raised the va lue of impor ts of a noncommercial charac ter th at are free of advance deposits and exempted ce r ta in used motor vehicles f rom the 10,000 per cent deposit require- men t. Colombia freed cer ta in types of capital goods f rom import deposit requ iremen ts. A reduction of advance impo rt deposit rates combined with the elimination of the deposit requ i rement for imports paid for by means of sight letters of credit or docu- ments against acceptance was also effected in Korea du r ing 1978. On the o ther hand, import deposit schemes were introduced or t igh tened in a number of developing countries. A fghan i s tan in October 1978 introduced a 20-30 per cent advance import deposit requirement for all private sector imports. In December 1978 Kenya imposed a temporary advance deposit require- ment of 25-100 per cent for six mon ths on almost all imports. With the exception of essential food- s tu f fs and certain capital goods, imports became subject to a 25 per cent advance import deposit requirement in Morocco in June 1978, and Nigeria in April 1978 introduced advance deposits of 100 per cent for imports of certain consumer goods by the private sector. In February 1979 Nicaragua imposed an advance import deposit requirement of 100 per cent on 50 per cent of all imports for varying periods of between 30 and 60 days, depend- ing on the type of commodity. 12 d. Payments Arrears The period under review witnessed a rise in the incidence of paymen ts arrears in member countries. These arrears mostly involve restrictions on payments and t ran s fe rs for current international transactions relating to commercial payments or to invisibles, such as remittances of income or debt service pay- men ts. Among the countries that had arrears in one or more of these categories of payments, Guyana, in connection w i th a program supported by the use of Fund resources, registered a reduction in outstand- ing arrears over the period. In Portugal, arrears on certain cu r rent invisibles which had emerged in 1977 declined d u r i ng the period under review. In the o ther countries for which data are available, there was, w i thout exception, an increase in ou ts tand ing paymen ts arrears over the period. In a number of these coun t r ies (Ghana, Jamaica, Nicaragua, Sudan, and Zamb ia) targets have been established for the phased reduction of arrears in connection with pro- grams supported by use of the Fund's resources. A r rea rs on commercial payments and /or other specified paymen ts for invisibles also emerged or increased in the Dominican Republic, Guinea, Gu inea -B issau, Madagascar, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzan ia, Tu rkey, Uganda, and Zaire. In some of these coun tr ies, steps were taken du r ing the period aimed at reduc ing or e l im ina t ing ou ts tand ing arrears. e. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments Off ic ial regulations on import paymen ts were relaxed in a number of countries. Among industrial coun tr ies, Italy in August 1978 liberalized the regu- lations regarding prepayment of imports. Among other countries, Chile relaxed the regulations on for- eign credits for import financing. Finland in May 1978 and in November 1978 curtailed the coverage of the "cash paymen ts scheme" under which payment for specified imports must be made before the goods are released by the customs authorities. Greece in July 1978 abolished prepayments for imports, and importers were required to present entry documents before obtaining foreign exchange for imports. Paki- stan in the course of 1978 reduced the minimum deposit margin requirement against the opening of letters of credit for some goods, abolished it for other items, and liberalized some other regulations affecting import payments. In October 1978 the minimum foreign financing terms for imports were relaxed in Peru. Minimum deposit margin requirements appli- cable to import letters of credit were reduced to a un i fo rm rate of 20 per cent in the Yemen Arab ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Republic in April 1978. Other countries which took steps to liberalize regulations on import payments, mainly for capital goods, were Argen t ina, Colombia, and Indonesia. Regulations on import payments were tightened in several countries. Colombia suspended the use of Coffee Savings Bonds for payment abroad, while Korea tightened the regulations regarding the repay- ment period for short-term import credits. In No- vember 1978 Nicaragua lowered the allocation of foreign exchange for urgently needed imports. From October 1978 Nigeria required official registration of all import payments above N 100,000. Paraguay tightened the documentation requirements for import payments and specified m in imum terms for accept- ance credit f inanc ing for imports. Regulations which entered into force in Romania limited the conclusion of import contracts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, and Swiss francs. While widening the foreign exchange allocation scheme for the financing of import requirements of exporters, Turkey repealed similar privileges applying to holders of convertible Turkish lira accounts and tightened regulations on the retained foreign exchange holdings of banks. Za ire tightened regula- tions regarding the use of retained foreign exchange holdings of banks for import payments. f. State Trading In February 1978 Algeria gave the public sector a monopoly over foreign trade, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya in October 1978 announced that imports could be effected only by the public sector, coopera- tive societies, or by "popularly managed firms." Fol- lowing the effective expiration of the trade agreement between India and Pakistan, trade between the two countries was again conducted on a government to government basis. While the list of imports subject to obligatory canalization through the state trading agency was reduced in India in April 1978, imports of ju te were added to the list in June 1978. 2. Exports and Export Proceeds During the period under review, there were numer- ous adaptations or extensions of various forms of export incentives or other direct support schemes by member countries. Colombia increased the rates for tax credit certificates (CATs) relating to exports of nontraditional products, with a view to strengthening export incentives in labor-intensive industries and small or medium-sized firms. Costa Rica ratified the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Development, formally introduced in the previous year. Ecuador extended the eligibility of tax credit certificates to exporters of Manila hemp. India raised the "duty drawback rates" for ungalvanized steel items and extended for an additional period of three years the cash assistance scheme for exporters; subsidies were also extended to Indian exporters of rubber products. New Zealand extended its tax incentive scheme for exports until March 31,1980. In Turkey, additional manufactures and certain proc- essed agricultural products were added to the list of exportable goods eligible for rebates of certain taxes, while the ceiling on the rebate for these products, a f ter being reduced early in the year, was subse- quently raised. On the other hand, there was a curtailment of export subsidy schemes in some developing countries, mostly in connection with on-going liberalization of the exchange system. Thus, as part of trade liberali- zation measures announced in January 1979, Brazil reduced by 10 per cent the tax credits given to export- ers of manu fac tu red goods in respect of federal and state taxes on value added; Brazil also declared its intention to phase out the tax credits, through quar- terly reductions of 5 per cent, by mid-1983. Costa Rica removed fish and various other sea products from the list of export items eligible for tax credit certificates. In Ghana, following a depreciation of the cedi, the rate for the export bonus scheme was lowered to a un iform 10 per cent for eligible prod- ucts. Export subsidies in India were eliminated or reduced for a wide range of items, notably cotton textiles, chemicals, and certain processed foods. In Uruguay, export rebates for leather goods were reduced by 50 per cent in January 1978, and for all goods by 15 per cent in June 1978. Several countries modified their systems of export financing facilities. The Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits was accepted by the members of the OECD Group on Export Credits and Credit Guarantees13 and came into effect on April 1, 1978. This arrangement replaced the Consensus of Converging Export Credit Policies of July 1976, which had been adopted in February 1977 by 20 OECD member governments with the objective 13 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nor- way, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United States. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of preventing the distortion of trade which may result from excessive competition in officially supported export credits. The new arrangement provides, inter alia, for (1) a m in imum cash payment of 15 per cent of the export contract value; (2) a max imum repay- ment term, with specified exceptions, of Sl/2 years for "relatively rich" and "intermediate" countries, and 10 years for "relatively poor" countries; and ( 3) interest rate norms under which m in imum inter- est rates range from 7.75-8 per cent for relatively rich countries, 7.25-7.75 per cent for intermediate countries, and 7.25-7.5 for relatively poor countries. Among ind iv idual European countries, Aus tr ia expanded the scope of its export f inanc ing fac i l i ty, and Denmark announced the creation of an export pro- motion fund. In Italy, the partial foreign f inanc ing requirement for exports on deferred payment terms, which had been in effect since 1976, was term ina ted. Spain du r ing the year increased the amount of credit available for export f inanc ing by almost 30 per cent. In Turkey, the p re fe ren t ial foreign exchange entitle- ments of exporters of manu fac tu res and m i n i ng prod- ucts were widened considerably and m anu f a c tu r e rs who had export orders on hand, or were willing to guarantee exports of a specific value, were allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to f inance their input needs. Several developing countries took steps dur ing the year to improve the ir export financing facilities. Korea raised the l im i ts on amoun ts loanable by the banks for export-related bills, and the previously existing ceilings for export financing were eliminated. Mexico introduced a special rediscount facility at preferential rates for export documents of up to 90 days. In Pak is tan, access to the Export Finance Scheme was enlarged and concessional in terest rates on export credits under this scheme were reduced. Argentina, Chile, and Colombia broadened the ir export financing schemes du r ing the year. On the o ther hand, ex is t ing export financing schemes were tightened in a number of cases. With effect f rom Apr il 1978, expor ters in the Un i ted King- dom ceased to have access to concessionary finance for goods sold to other EEC members on credit terms of two years or more. In Korea, the Government raised the interest rate applicable to domestic loans in support of exports. A number of countries adapted the ir a r rangemen ts relating to guaran tees or risk insurance for export credits. Among the indus tr ial countries, Switzerland introduced a new scheme involving the sales of options for foreign exchange by the Swiss National Bank 14 to guarantee the Swiss franc value of fu ture export proceeds for up to two years; the scheme replaced the gentlemen's agreement between the National Bank and various export industries. In other cases, a new export credit insurance system was established by Brazil, and a system of official bank guarantees was introduced for banks providing export credit in the form of suppliers' credits and buyers' credits; the latter was intended to facilitate payments by the for- eign buyer by means of credit from a Brazilian bank. In Pakistan, exporters of textiles to Sudan and Uganda were allowed to grant deferred payment terms for up to two years if the transaction was guar- anteed by a bank of international reputation or by the central bank or government of the importing country; a forward cover arrangement at the author- ized dealers' prevailing buying and selling rates vis-a- vis the public was also introduced for exports under bar ter agreements. For all other exports, the four- mon th negotiation limit continued to apply. Com- mercial banks in Sri Lanka were authorized to pro- vide, without prior permission from the Central Bank, guaran tees involving current payments abroad to non- residents for payments in foreign currency, and to extend guarantees to a resident of Sri Lanka on behalf of a nonresident. In Uruguay, a new advance export surrender scheme designed to reduce exchange r isk was established, whereby exporters were allowed to sell fo rwa rd to the Central Bank at the current exchange rate up to 6 months in advance of receipts of exchange for traditional exports, and up to 14 mon ths in advance for nontraditional exports. Regulations governing the surrender of export pro- ceeds were modified in several countries. In Argen- t ina, the time limit for the surrender of the proceeds of promoted exports was abolished, and the author- ized fo rms of payment were expanded to include d r a f t s. In Peru, exporters were given the right to purchase the equivalent of surrendered export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange certificates to meet their fore ign obligations or to repay loans denominated in fore ign currency granted by local banks; there were also various changes in surrender requirements applied to commercial banks. In Portugal, penalties were imposed for the deferral of liquidation of export earnings beyond 120 days af ter shipment, when such de fe r ral was for noncommercial reasons. In Zaire, the regime of foreign currency accounts by which export- ers were permitted to re ta in a specified proportion of export earn ings was abolished, and the authorized banks were required to surrender the corresponding amoun ts of foreign exchange to the Bank of Zaire. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES time limit for the surrender of export proceeds was extended in Chile, Ecuador, and Peru and reduced in Nicaragua. A number of countries took steps to ease quantita- tive restrictions on exports. As domestic supply con- ditions for foodstuffs improved, Colombia lifted the suspension of exports of certain types of poultry and set quotas for exports of rice. Ecuador resumed exports of unprocessed cacao, subject to a limit amounting to 25 per cent of total domestic produc- tion. In India, export firms were granted additional licenses, over and above normal import replenish- ment licenses, in respect of products manufactured by small-scale and cottage industries for which they act as agents; export quotas were also raised for cer- tain agricultural products while the ban on exports to the People's Republic of China was lifted. Nepal greatly simplified its licensing procedures for exports to countries other than India. Sri Lanka abolished prior licensing requirements for a wide range of commodities, and Zaire simplified its export regime by authorizing bank branches to validate export licenses. Quantitative restrictions on exports were intensified in a number of countries, often with a view to the easing of domestic shortages, particularly of food items. Prohibitions, quantitative limitations, or sur- veillance licensing were imposed on specified exports, largely foodstuff and other agricultural products, in many developing countries including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, India, Indo- nesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Thailand. While previously no export licensing sys- tem existed, Nicaragua introduced a law making most exports subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Among other countries, Australia announced that exporters of coal, iron ore, bauxite, and alumina would be required to obtain specific government approval before making export offers or commitments. Other quantitative export restrictions were associated with voluntary export restraint agreements of the type referred to in the section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above. Thus, Hong Kong during the year signed an agreement limiting the amount of footwear that could be shipped to the United States. Japan announced restrictive guidelines for a wide range of industrial exports, including steel, color television sets, ships, motorcycles, copying machines, and automobiles. 3. Current Invisibles Among the major industrial countries, there were few changes in regulations relating to current pay- ments for invisibles dur ing the period under review; but there were important developments in several developing countries. A number of countries eased restrictions on the provision of foreign exchange for travel, the transfer of income abroad, and in some cases for personal remittances, although these adjustments were often designed merely to maintain the real value of exchange allocations. There were, on the other hand, some countries in which serious payments difficulties resulted in the imposition of new restrictions, or the intensification of existing restrictions, on payments for invisibles. Chad increased the exchange allocation for tourist and business travel to countries outside the former French Franc Area, and Colombia raised the maxi- mum entitlements for foreign travel while exempting foreign travel payments f rom the 60 per cent advance deposit scheme. In Costa Rica, the amount of for- eign exchange that may be purchased per person for any purpose was raised; such purchases, which pre- viously could be made every six months, could now be made every three months. Foreign exchange allo- cations for tourist and business travel were reintro- duced in Ghana. Iceland increased exchange alloca- tions for foreign travel, and requirements regarding the permissible frequency of exchange sales for travel abroad were liberalized in India. Among the several revisions to its foreign exchange regulations, Korea simplified procedures and increased the basic exchange allocations in respect of foreign travel. Paki- stan increased the daily exchange allocations for busi- ness travel abroad, and introduced for the first time a special, lower exchange allowance for business travel to India; the exchange allowance for private trips to India and Bangladesh was also raised. In addition to raising the business allowances for travel to all coun- tries, Sri Lanka increased the basic travel allowance for neighboring countries. Zambia raised the basic exchange allowance for business travel and the exchange allowances for medical travel and educa- tion support. Limits on sales of foreign exchange for travel abroad were also raised dur ing the year in Cyprus, Portugal, and Spain. On the other hand, a number of countries intensi- fied restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel abroad. Afghanistan sharply reduced the exchange allocations for travel, although larger amounts could be made available upon application to commercial banks by persons satisfactorily demon- strating to the Government a legitimate travel pur- pose. In Kenya, all sales of tickets to residents for nongovernment travel outside the country became 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS subject to approval by the Cen tral Bank of Kenya. The Philippines in December 1978 subjected to prior central bank app roval all allocations for foreign ex- change for purposes of t r av e l ing to Hong Kong; th is measure was rescinded, however, in February 1979. Turkey reduced the ava i lab i l i ty of the US$500 a person fo re ign exchange a l lowance for travel to once every two yea rs; exchange allowances for business travel were reduced by 50 per cent except for expor ters of goods and services; fu r th e rmo r e, w i th e f fect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1979, the fore ign exchange allowance for travel abroad was again reduced to US$500 a person for three calendar years. Tax d i s incen t ives to fo re ign t ravel were increased in a numb er of coun t r ies. Of the cases invo lv ing pay- men ts restrictions, Iceland increased to 1.75 per cent the license fee on fore ign exchange sales to tou r is ts, and in September imposed a t empo r a ry 10 per cent tax on tou r ist exp end i tu re abroad based on the for- e ign exchange sold to res iden ts for t ravel purposes. Tu rkey in March 1979 in troduced a 50 per cent tax on the purchase of fo re ign exchange by Tu rk i sh na t iona ls t rave l ing abroad. In o ther cases, Bolivia raised ex is t ing taxes on fo re ign travel and in t roduced a new tax on purchases of air travel tickets. Early in 1978 Iran doubled (to Rls 20,000 a t r ip) the tax wh ich, w i th some exceptions, is applied to I ran ian na t iona ls t rave l ing ab road; the tax on each add i t ional member of a f am i ly t rave l ing on a single passport was raised f rom Rls 2,000 to Rls 5,000. In May 1978 Peru raised the t ravel tax for all tou r ist and business travel by 50 per cent to S/. 3,000 for the first five days spent abroad and S/. 300 for each add i t ional day. Among the indus t r ial coun tr ies, Japan, as part of a series of measures announced by Japan and the Un i ted States ( the Ushiba-Strauss Jo int S t a t em en t ), raised the ceilings on ou tward remittances. These measures were put in to effect on April 1, 1978. In Janua ry 1978 fo re ign exchange regulations were liberalized in Italy, as fo l lows: ( 1) banks were au thor- ized to effect paymen ts for services abroad up to 60 days before and up to 360 days after the actual date on which the services were rendered; and (2) payments f rom abroad for services rendered in Italy could be made up to 360 days in advance of, or up to 120 days af ter, the date rendered. In the United Kingdom, increases were made in the limits up to which banks may authorize payments abroad without reference to the Bank of England: these payments may be made for a variety of purposes, ranging from advertising expenses to income tax. Early in 1978 the U.S. Treasury announced that it 16 would allow U.S. res iden ts to remit up to US$500 a qua r ter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a qua r ter to close relatives in Viet Nam (rem i t tances to these coun t r ies had previously been b a n n e d ); au tho r iza t ion was also granted for rem i t tances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to V iet Nam to help re la t ives to emigrate f rom those countries. A number of developing coun tr ies eased restric- t ions on the rem i t tance of income abroad, inc lud ing the t r an s f er of prof i ts and d iv idends. In Argen t ina, paymen ts on account of licensing fees, royalties, tech- nical services, rem i t tances of prof i ts, and repatriation of inv e s tm ent were f reed f rom the requ irement of p r ior approva l. Chile eased the adm in is tra t ive pro- cedures re la t ing to applications for paymen ts for inv i s ib les classified as ex t rao rd ina ry rem i t tances and increased the allowances for certain other paymen ts for inv is ib les. The proh ib i t ion on the t ran s fer of deprec ia t ion allowances by foreign-based companies was l i f t ed in Guyana. Kenya early in 1978 increased the se t t l ing- in allowance for em igran ts as well as the pe rm i t ted annu al t ran s fe r s; however, in December 1978, those companies with equ i ty held by nonresi- den ts were ins truc ted not to remit a dividend of more th an 10 per cent of the equity capital and /or reserves. In Pak i s tan, the mon th ly ceiling for fam i ly remit- tances by fore igners f rom their net income was raised f r om <£ stg. 150 to US$500; at the same time, au tho r iza t ion was gran ted for genuine savings by for- eigners to be remitted in a lump sum ra ther than in ins ta l lmen ts. Pakistan also granted permission for some service paymen ts to India for royalties and techn ical fees. Portugal in July 1978 raised the limit on fo re ign exchange sales for remittances of profits and d iv idends, but such remittances remained subject to delay for a period of less than six months. On the other hand, the Dominican Republic reduced from 60 to 40 the percentage of nonresidents' salaries and earn ings that could be remitted through the official fo re ign exchange marke t. Among other measures affec t ing payments for invisibles, Bangladesh raised the limit on the amount of unspent domestic currency that nonresident travel- ers could reconvert into convertible foreign currencies w i thout approval of the Bangladesh Bank to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the total amount of foreign exchange converted into taka, whichever is smaller. Brazil maintained unchanged, in nominal terms, the deposit requirement on the issuance of passports and exit visas, payment of which is a condition for the purchase of exchange for travel. In Iceland, the license fee on payments for invisibles was raised to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 1 per cent. Iran in November 1978 limited pr iva te foreign exchange t ran s fe rs to US$4,000 a year except for students, pilgrims, and those going abroad for medical reasons. In May 1979 Iran announced that fore ign exchange would be sold to the commercial banks at the official rate of exchange for a number of paymen ts for invisibles, including exchange for travel abroad of up to US$6,000 per passport. Korea per- mitted tour is ts and foreign residents depar t ing f rom that coun t ry to exchange any amount of won for foreign currency provided they had proof of the initial conversion of exchange. In Nicaragua, pay- men ts for invisibles were made subject to a priority listing involving delays in approval, while Nigeria reduced the annual l im it on remittances that residents and charitable o rgan iza t ions could make for g ift purposes. Dur ing the period under rev iew, the re were a num- ber of countries which accumulated arrears on cur- rent paymen ts for invisibles (see section on Paymen ts Arrears, above ). 4. Multiple Currency Practices Dur ing the period under review, steps to abolish or simplify multiple currency practices occurred in a number of countries, notably Egypt, Ghana, Jamaica, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Nepal, Peru, Uruguay, and Viet Nam. In many of these cases, the measures were taken in the context of financial pro- grams supported by the use of Fund resources. In Egypt, additional imports and transactions in invisi- bles were transferred f rom the official to the parallel exchange market in July 1978; on Janua ry 1, 1979 Egypt un if ied the official and parallel exchange rates by sh i f t ing the rema in ing transactions to the more depreciated rate in the parallel ma rke t .14 In May 1978 Jamaica and the Lao People's Democratic Republic ceased to apply dual exchange rate systems. In October 1978 the dual exchange market in Uru- guay was de facto unified when the central bank announced its intention to buy and sell any amount of foreign exchange at the prevailing commercial exchange rate. In a reform of Nepal's exchange sys- tem in March 1978, the Exporters' Exchange Entitle- 14 However, the free fore ign exchange market continues to exist, and a wide var ie ty of fore ign exchange transactions are permitted between ind iv idua ls at free ly negotiated rates; moreover, a special exchange rate, based on the former official rate, is maintained for settlements under bilateral payments agreements with countries that are not members of the Fund and for the liquidation of outstanding balances related to bilateral payments agreements which have been terminated. ment Scheme was eliminated, and a dual exchange ra te system was introduced under which most export and import transactions, other than those with India, are made at the depreciated rate. Peru in Ju ly 1978 expanded the certificate market by authorizing resi- den ts to use foreign currency travelers checks and fore ign notes and coin to purchase the certificates; previously, foreign currency certificates of deposit could be acquired only against draf ts, checks, or bank t r an s f e r s; this measure, together with f requent adjust- ments of the official exchange rate beginning in May 1978 reduced the prem ium in the market for certifi- cates of deposit f rom a high level of nearly 50 per cent in early 1978 to about 5 per cent at the end of the year. In Turkey, the separate rate for workers' rem i t tances ceased to be in effect on March 1, 1978; however, new multiple currency practices arose from the in troduc t ion of a 50 per cent tax on purchases of fore ign exchange for travel and f rom the provision which enables exporters to choose to sell export pro- ceeds at a ra te other than that prevailing on the date of su r rende r. Viet Nam in May 1978 w i thdrew both the South Vietnamese dong and the Nor th Vietna- mese dong and introduced a new currency, the dong. Iceland in September 1978 imposed a temporary 10 per cent tax on tourist expend i ture abroad based on fore ign exchange purchases for travel. Iran, on November 14, 1978, term ina ted the Central Bank's support of the noncommercial market by discontinu- ing sales of U.S. dollars to match supply with demand for foreign exchange in that marke t; certain pay- ments for invisibles were also shifted f rom the non- commercial to the official rate market. Nicaragua introduced a dual exchange market in September 1978, consisting of an official market, and a market in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. The law establishing the dual market specified those foreign exchange transactions which had to be effected at the official exchange rate; purchases and sales of foreign exchange outside these stipulated categories were to be made at the free market rate. T he B e l g i a n - L u x em b o u rg E c o n om ic U n i on (BLEU) decided during the year to maintain all pay- ments and receipts relating to trade in diamonds in the financial marke t; such transactions had been shifted on December 1, 1977 on a temporary basis f rom the official to the financial marke t. In Ecuador the dual exchange market which had existed since 1971 was maintained during the review period but with a widened spread between the exchange rates in the two markets; this was also the case in the Domini- can Republic. There was no significant change in the 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS dual market system in Paraguay. Morocco, as well as Algeria, continued to pay a p rem ium on workers' remittances f rom abroad, and Moroccan banks intro- duced a supplementary prem ium on workers' remit- tances from France so as to ensure beneficiaries at all times parity between the French f ranc and the Moroccan d i rham. In the first half of 1978 Bangladesh eliminated the m in imum exchange rate guaran tee introduced in late 1977 for the U.S. dollar, a measure which had given rise to broken cross rates. Bangladesh's exchange system, however, still con ta ins two other multiple currency practices: (1) the Wage Earners' Scheme, under which balances held in domestic commercial banks by Bangladesh emigrant workers are sold through daily auctions at fluctuating exchange rates; and (2) the Export Performance License Scheme under which additional import licenses are granted on the basis of export performance, w i th the option of t ran s fe r r ing such licenses to th i rd parties at a pre- mium. Indonesia on December 13, 1978 eliminated the mu l t ip le currency practice involved in the require- ment of an advance deposit for specified imports, a financial guaran tee amoun t ing to 100 per cent of the value of these imports, and the advance payment of du t ies on such impor ts; the measures had been in force since Janua ry 1, 1977. The Lao People's Democratic Republic in May 1978 eliminated the p rem ium on certain transac t ions in fore ign exchange. A fgh an i s t an sh i f ted paymen ts in the bilateral trade w i th India f rom the accounting Ind ian rupee to a convertible cu r rency basis, and t ran s fe r red proceeds of certain exports to bilateral account countries f rom the operational m a rk et rate to the commercial bank s' f ree ma rket rate. Moreover, the o f f ic ial buy ing ra te of Af 44.70 per US$1 for convertible cu r rency salaries of fo re ign employees was e l im ina ted. Braz il lowered the exchange taxes on proceeds of expor ts of green coffee in response to the f u r t h er w e ak en ing in world coffee prices. An existing mu l t ip le cu r rency practice was s imp l if ied in G h a n a, whe re the export bonus, wh ich had prev ious ly amoun ted to 30 per cent or 20 per cent of the expo rt va lue, depend ing on the category involved, was un i f ied at a ra te of 10 per cen t; however, the 30 per cent levy on the sale of fo re ign exchange for travel abroad con t inued in e f fec t. In February 1978 Grenada increased the tax on most purchases of fore ign exchange from 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent, and, as men t ioned above, Iceland in troduced on September 11, 1978 a 10 per cent tax on the sale of foreign exchange for tou r ist travel abroad. 18 I ta ly, which had eliminated its multiple currency practices in the first half of 1977, continued to main- tain the deposit requirement of 50 per cent or 25 per cent on outward transfers of resident-owned capital. In the United Kingdom, some regulations concerning the investment currency market were modified with effect from January 1, 1978 in line with the United Kingdom's undertakings under the terms of its acces- sion to the EEC: the requirement to convert 25 per cent of the net proceeds of sale of a holding of invest- ment currency or foreign currency securities through official foreign exchange markets was abolished. In 1978 the effective premium in the investment cur- rency market in the United Kingdom was on average slightly higher than in 1977, viz., about 42 per cent. In South Africa the discount in the market for freely negotiable securities fluctuated markedly during 1978 and stood at 43.5 per cent at the end of the year, compared with 37.7 per cent at the end of 1977. 5. Bilateral Payments Arrangements There was a fu r ther reduction in the number of bilateral payments arrangements, both among Fund members and between members and nonmembers. Among members of the Fund, 11 arrangements were e l im ina ted, compared with 5 during the previous year. Egypt terminated its arrangements with Ghana, Greece, and Somalia; Ghana, in addition, terminated its arrangement with Yugoslavia; Guinea terminated its arrangements w i th three members, Morocco, Sene- gal, and Sierra Leone; Romania discontinued its arrangemen ts with Mali as did India with Afghanistan; the arrangements between Singapore and Romania, and Mexico and Iran were reclassified. Two new arrangements arose f rom Cape Verde's accession to Fund membership in November 1978, and Bangla- desh negotiated a new arrangement with Viet Nam. N ine paymen ts arrangements between members and nonmembers were terminated in 1978. Algeria dis- continued its arrangements with Bulgaria and North Korea, Chile with the People's Republic of China, Cyprus with Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia, Egypt w i th Czechoslovakia, and India with Bulgaria and No r th Korea. The arrangement between Ethiopia and the German Democratic Republic was reclassi- fied, and Sao Tome and Principe negotiated a new arrangement w i th the German Democratic Republic. At the end of 1978, 36 Fund member countries were m a in t a in ing bilateral payments arrangements with o ther members. The number of bilateral arrange- men ts among members declined from 95 in 1964 to about 44 at the end of 1978. The number of bilateral ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES payments arrangements maintained by Fund mem- bers with nonmembers has also declined substan- tially over this period, from 227 in 1964 to about 130 at the end of 1978. Over the period 1964-78, the overall number of bilateral payments arrange- ments with both members and nonmembers declined by 46 per cent ( f rom 322 in 1964 to 174 in 1978). During the same period Fund membership grew from 101 to 138. 6. Capital Flows Measures aimed at controlling international capital movements during the review period represented in general an adaptation of existing policy trends. This was particularly true of the industrial countries, where capital control measures essentially reflected attempts to avert unwan ted departures from domestic l iqu id i ty growth targets or levels of international competitiveness. Among the developing countries, measures to influence capital movements were gen- erally aimed at the encouragement of capital inflows, though there were instances in which capital inflow regulations were tightened as a means of strengthen- ing the management of domestic liquidity or exter- nal debt. As the main conduit of fund s, the bank ing system continued to be the primary focus of the new measures, though several other measures were also introduced with respect to capital flows through nonbanks. In August 1978 the U.S. Federal Reserve System announced changes in reserve requirements, aimed at encouraging member banks to subs t i tu te Eurodollar borrowing for domestic borrowing; at the same time, the existing 4 per cent reserve requ irement on exter- nal borrowing by member banks f rom the ir foreign branches or f rom foreign banks and the 1 per cent reserve requ irement on foreign branch loans to U.S. residents were abolished. The policy measures an- nounced by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve System on November 1, 1978 to f u r t h er strengthen the dollar and to counter domestic in f la t iona ry pres- sures included a supplementary reserve requ irement of 2 per cent of time deposits in denom ina t ions of US$100,000 or more. In other developments, the U.S. In terna t ional Bank ing Act was signed into law on September 17, 1978. The new law, which repre- sents the first overall regulatory scheme on the par- ticipation of foreign banks in the U.S. domestic mar- ket, seeks to implement the principle of parity of trea tment of foreign and domestic bank s; it provides, in ter alia, that branches and agencies of foreign banks may have federal charters (previously, they were limited to state ch a r t e r s ); that the Federal Reserve Board is legally authorized tb set reserve ratios for both federal and state branches and agencies of for- eign banks having more than US$1 billion in world- wide consolidated assets; that foreign banks may be a majority owner in corporations organized to engage in international financial transactions (Edge Act Cor- porations) ; and that, with the exception of operations prior to July 27, 1978, a foreign bank may accept deposits f rom domestic sources in only one U.S. state. During the period under review, measures to control capital movements were taken in the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, and Switzerland, essentially to counter upward pressures on their respective currencies. With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, the Federal Republic of Germany increased the mini- mum reserve requirement on banks' foreign liabilities from 12.75 per cent to 20 per cent for sight deposits, f rom 8.95 per cent to 15 per cent for time deposits, and from 5.65 per cent to 10 per cent for savings deposits. Simultaneously, increases in the banks' for- eign liabilities over their average levels for the quarter ended December 1977 were made subject to a new reserve requirement of 80 per cent. However, the marginal reserve requirement was abolished with effect f rom June 1, 1978, at which time the reserve requ iremen ts on foreign liabilities were lowered to the levels applicable to the corresponding domestic liabilities, and the unified requirements were reduced by 7 per cent. Effective November 1, 1978, in order to offset renewed capital inflows, the minimum reserve rates on banks' domestic and foreign liabilities were raised by 9 per cent. In a liberalization of exist- ing controls, Italy on Janua ry 1, 1978 introduced changes in its foreign exchange regulations which, inter alia, permitted foreign exchange receipts to be converted under specified circumstances during a period of up to 120 days af ter collection, instead of 30 days, as was required previously. In Japan, measures announced in the context of the Ushiba-Strauss Joint Statement of Janua ry 13, 1978, and introduced on April 1, 1978, included a liberalization of regulations concerning foreign cur- rency deposits by residents, a relaxation of restrictions on forward foreign exchange transactions, and a lib- eralization of bank guarantees. At the same time, an increase in the marginal reserve requ irement for non- res ident free-yen deposits over the daily average level of February 1978, f rom 50 per cent to 100 per cent, came into effect on March 18, 1978. However, in J a n u a ry 1979, the Bank of Japan restored the 50 per cent reserve requirement and eliminated it altogether in February 1979. In April 1978 the restrictions con- 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS cerning the use of impact loans extended by fo re ign banks were eased so as to allow the ir use for long- term operational purposes, as well as to hedge against fore ign cu r rency assets. In May 1978 swap quotas were expanded for foreign banks opera t ing in Japan, and in Ju ly the M in is t ry of Finance began giving b lanket approval to app l ica t ions for the g ran t ing of foreign loans by Japanese fo re ign exchange banks. In Sw i tzer land, the limit on the m a tu r i ty of the Na t ional Bank's fo rwa rd exchange contracts was raised in Feb rua ry 1978 f rom th ree mon ths to two years, and the limit on the impo rt of fo re ign bank- notes of Sw F 20,000 a person a calendar qua r te r, wh ich had been abolished on May 1, 1977, was reim- posed. In add i t ion, e f fec t ive Apr il 1, 1978, the exemp t ion f r om the 10 per cent qua r te r ly "negative in terest rate" prev ious ly gran ted to fo re ign mone ta ry au tho r i t ies was w i th d r awn and in the fo l low ing mon th the application of th is measure was ex tended to all non res ident deposits of Sw F 5 m i l l ion or more (p re- viously, it applied only to the net increase in such deposits over the ir October 31, 1974 leve ls ), and to the excess over 80 per cent of the end-October 1974 levels of such deposits amoun t ing to between Sw F 1 m i l l ion and Sw F 5 m i l l ion. B eg inn ing October 1, 1978 the Na t ional Bank gran ted au tho r iza t ion for up to 50 per cent (p rev ious ly zero) of Swiss f r a nc pro- ceeds f rom capital exports subject to licensing to be converted th rough domestic commercial banks ra ther than at the Na t ional Bank, and on November 15 the limitation of such conversions into U.S. dollars only was l if ted. Aus tr ia announced in J a n u a ry 1978 that it would approve app l ica t ions for fo re ign cu r rency loans by domestic credit in s t i tu t ions to foreign residents w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than one year only up to a l im it of 7 per cent over the redemption of ex is t ing loans; export finance credits, however, remained outside this l im i t. In Norway, authorized banks were permitted in September 1978 to open foreign exchange accounts w i th customers hav ing both income and expend i tures in fore ign currencies (a concession previously pro- vided only for insurance companies' brokers and shipping compan ies), but the holdings in these accounts could not exceed the amounts necessary for covering obligations in the immediate fu tu re and the call period must not exceed 30 days. In November the Norwegian authorities introduced new regulations for banks' foreign transactions ( for a trial period to the end of 1979), under which banks would have to balance daily their combined spot and forward posi- tions in foreign currency within narrow margins vary- 20 ing between banks according to the size of their total assets; certain banks which had accumulated large net fore ign positions would be allowed to reduce them g radua l ly. Aus tra l ia, in Feb rua ry 1978, authorized banks to enter in to arrangemen ts with residents for the issu- ance in favor of nonres iden ts of performance or bid bonds in letter of credit or other fo rm up to $A 100,000 in any one case in respect of the import or export of goods, or the provision of services from or to Aus tra l ia. Aus tra l ia also announced certain modi- fications in the exchange control system, whereby the embargo on nonres ident deposits with a m a tu r i ty of less than six months was l if ted and su rve i l lance on in tercompany fore ign indebtedness was l ibera l ized. For the purpose of controlling des tab i l iz ing capital flows, Ireland in December 1978 in t roduced the fo l low ing measures a f fec t ing flows of f u n ds th rough the bank s: (1) Irish residents holding accounts with banks or other financial ins t i tu t ions in the Un i ted Kingdom were required to close them w i t h in th ree mon ths; the balance in such accounts mu st be o f fe red for sale to an authorized dealer, un le ss the account holder had applied for and had been g ran ted approval by the Central Bank to con- t i n ue to operate the account; (2) Central Bank ap- proval was in troduced for all credits in excess of £ Ir 50,000 to nonbank External Accounts; (3) w i thout the approval of the Central Bank, the balances in the accounts of ind iv idual nonresident b a n ks could not exceed by more than <£Ir 100,000 the balance in each such account at the close of business on December 15, 1978. On April 1, 1978 New Zealand introduced changes in its exchange control regulations, under which the Sterling Area coun tr ies were redesignated as "foreign countries," and residents were no longer required to obtain prior approval for import-related or export-related fore ign borrow ing for periods of less than one year. In Spain, a new decree issued in June 1978 allowed fore ign banks to open branches, and required them to subscribe capital of Ptas 750 million for a branch and Ptas 1,500 million for a subsidiary. Each foreign bank was restricted to three branches, and only 40 per cent of the lending operations in Spain could be financed with pesetas obtained in the local market. In the area of portfolio investment, new policy measures introduced in the industrial countries included a ban by the Federal Republic of Germany, e f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 1978, on purchases by non- residents of domestic securities with a remaining ma tu r i ty of over two years and up to four years; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES fu r the rmo re, on May 12, 1978, the Central Capital Market Committee temporarily suspended (un t il June 8, 1978) the issuance of foreign bonds denomi- nated in deutsche ma rk. In Japan, a new regulation allowing fore ign unde rw r i te rs to participate in yen- denominated bond issues was announced on March 10, 1978; on the other hand, on March 16, 1978 purchases by nonresidents of bonds w i th a rema in ing ma tu r i ty of less than five years were prohibited. In J anu a ry 1979 the regulation was modified when the prohibition was applied to bonds with a rema in ing m a tu r i ty of one year and one month, or less; the prohibition was l i f ted entirely in February 1979. In February 1978 Switzerland announced a ban on the sale of domestic securities which was more comprehensive in its coverage than the one in existence du r ing the period 1972-74. In add i t ion, as part of the measures introduced on October 1, 1978, the m in imum resident subscrip- tion quota for Swiss franc-denom ina ted foreign bond issues was raised from 35 per cent to 50 per cent, and nonresidents were perm i t ted un l im i ted reinvest- ments of proceeds f rom the sale of Swiss securities. Subsequently, on November 15, 1978, the Swiss National Bank modified these changes by ( 1) pro- hibiting nonresidents f rom adding the proceeds f rom sales of certain investment certificates to nonresident investment accounts which are exempted from the negative interest rate requ iremen t; (2) considering as resident purchases, those of newly placed bonds and notes issued by nonresidents, if they are financed with f u n ds f rom resident investment accounts and, therefore, would count toward the m in imum quota of 50 per cent for placement of such notes and bonds with residents; and (3) establishing that the bonds and notes issued must have a ma tu r i ty of at least three years and not more than eight years. The Swiss National Bank lifted the ban on foreign purchases of Swiss securities on Janua ry 25, 1979 and, at the sarne time, removed the restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes into Switzerland, while waiving the rule limiting to 50 per cent the proportion of Swiss franc-denominated foreign bond issues to which foreign investors can subscribe. In June 1978 Australia lifted the restriction on nonresident investments in fixed-interest securities having an original maturity of less than six months. Denmark granted authorization for residents to sub- scribe to or purchase foreign bonds issued by Euro- pean institutions of which Denmark is a member. In Ireland, measures introduced in December 1978 included the following regulations on portfolio invest- men t: ( 1) resident holdings of all foreign currency securities (including U.K. securities) could be sold only to nonresidents, the proceeds of which must be either reinvested or offered for sale to an author- ized dealer w i th in three mon ths; and (2) purchases of foreign currency securities (including U.K. secu- r i t i e s ), apart f rom switches referred to in ( 1 ), were not allowed. The Central Bank, however, was pre- pared to consider applications f rom institutional investors to borrow foreign currency for purposes of portfolio investment. The United Kingdom in June 1978 l i f ted the restriction on the amount of assets wh ich could be held by ins t i tu t ional investors invest- ing in fore ign currency securities issued by investment and un it trus ts, mu tual fund s, or other institutions whose p r inc ipal purpose is portfolio investment in securities, land, or property, although the 20 per cent limit on the acquisition of foreign currency securities ca r ry ing vo t ing rights remained in effect. Addition- ally, as f rom August 1978, dividends on U.K. resi- dents' holdings of foreign currency securities received in stock will take the character of the underlying holding w i thout the requirement to effect a compen- satory transaction in the investment currency ma rke t. Denmark in August 1978 took a number of steps to liberalize inflows of capital in the form of direct fore ign inves tmen t. Under the new regulations, special permission was not required for residents to make t rans fe rs abroad, within certain limits, in connection with most direct investments or with private acquisition of real estate abroad; the annual limit for individual foreign enterprises in respect of direct investment of equity capital was doubled; and inward direct investments in the fo rm of equity capital could henceforth be made without special license provided the investment did not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 1 million (former ly DKr 100,000) in each calendar year. In other countries, Australia in J u ne 1978 relaxed certain administrative require- ments involving private overseas capital inflows. Government approval was not required for proposals for foreign investment in new projects (except invest- ment in the financial sector and u ran ium) of up to $A 5 million; investments of up to $A 2 million under the Foreign Takeovers Act; and individual real estate acquisitions of less than $A 250,000. In Ireland, s tar t ing from December 1978, existing rules for the supervision of direct investment in the EEC, as well as personal capital movements to and purchase of personal property in the EEC were applied to the United Kingdom. In April 1978 Spain issued a new 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS decree regulating direct investment abroad by Spanish individuals and companies. Investments up to Ptas 10 million, or its equivalent, could be made freely, provided the investment did not represent more than 40 per cent of the investors' assets and that the participation of the Spanish firm in the capital of the foreign company was at least 20 per cent. Invest- ments of over Ptas 10 million required, in addition, that the net assets of the Spanish firm must exceed Ptas 100 million. Among the developing countries which introduced new measures a f fec t ing capital flows through the bank ing system, Argen t ina in July 1978 empowered authorized financial ins t i tu t ions to carry out f u t u re foreign exchange operations in the private sector w i th maturities of up to 180 days, provided such operations were based on bona fide export and import transactions. Chile in Janua ry 1978 au thor ized com- mercial banks to contract external credits for relend- ing in local currency up to an amount not exceeding 25 per cent of paid-up capital and reserves of each bank; the global limit on commercial bank indebted- ness to foreign banks and correspondents was simul- taneously raised f rom 150 per cent to 160 per cent of paid-up capital and reserves. In April 1978 both of these limits were permitted to be exceeded by 20 percentage points, provided that the excess repre- sented foreign credits hav ing an average ma tu r i ty of at least three years. In Colombia, the m in imum reserve requ iremen ts on the banks' domestic and foreign currency liabilities were eased in April 1978: in the case of foreign currency deposits, a rate of 6 per cent was applied up to a deposit volume of US$4 million, compared w i th the previous limit of US$2.5 million. Reflecting the improvement in its external position, in Janua ry and then again in April 1978, Korea reduced the max imum interest rates payable on foreign exchange loans by domestic and foreign-owned bank s: the spread over the London interbank offered rate (L IBOR) in the two- step reductions was lowered f rom a un i fo rm 1.75 per cent to levels rang ing f rom 1.25 per cent for loans with a ma tur i ty of more than seven years to 0.75 per cent for ma tur i t ies of six mon ths or less. With effect from Janua ry 1, 1979, the Korean author- ities fu r th er revised the ir exchange control regulations to permit domestic banks to lend to nonres iden ts and to allow residents to hold fore ign currency deposit accounts. Mexico lowered the deposit rates of interest on nonresident f u n ds w i th maturities of less than six months, effective November 10, 1978; in the case of U.S. dollar-denominated deposits, 22 Mexican banks were authorized to pay rates similar to those prevailing in the Eurodollar market for deposits of comparable maturities. In September 1978 domestic banks in the Philippines were author- ized to deal in foreign currencies, and offshore bank- ing units were empowered to grant foreign currency loans, not exceeding 360 days, to specified enter- prises without Central Bank approval. A special zone for offshore banking was created in Uruguay in September 1978, where banks could freely take off- shore funds from, and lend them to, nonresidents without being subject to domestic bank regulations. In Bangladesh, the proceeds from sales of goods imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme (see footnote 12) were allowed, subject to central bank approval, to be credited to nonresident accounts that were opened for purposes of depositing remit- tances received through the banking system. In September 1978, at the request of the Nicaraguan au thor i t ies, Guatemala suspended all direct trans- actions in Nicaraguan cordobas, accepting on sight only cashiers' checks and certified checks made on or before September 9, 1978. Bank and certified checks issued af ter September 9 could be negotiated only with authorization of the Central Bank of Nicaragua and through the Central American Clear- ing House. Honduras in March imposed global l im i ts on the bank ing system's short-term net external borrowings and external debt guarantees in all matu- r i ty ranges, equal to the corresponding outstanding levels at the end of 1977. From Janua ry 1978 Jordan ian residents could open foreign currency deposits in domestic banks, not exceeding the equiva- lent of JD 5,000, provided the funds came from abroad, and depositors could draw any sum from such an account without prior permission. Jordanians who had worked abroad for more than three years and had decided to re turn were permitted to open fore ign currency accounts w i thout limit. The accounts could be replenished only f rom abroad and a f ter three years deposits in excess of JD 5,000 had to be converted into local currency. In July, Singapore allowed offshore banks to o f fer credit facilities, overdraf ts, and letters of credit to residents, but these banks continued to be barred from accepting Singapore dollar fixed deposits of less than S$250,000 or savings deposits from the general public. Several developing countries amended their regu- lations affec t ing direct and portfolio investment. Israel in August 1978 issued fu r th er amendments on the Law for the Encouragement of Industry to attract more foreign investment. The amendments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES offered tax concessions to foreign investors from North America. In December 1978, following large inflows of short-term capital in the form of foreign currency loans to Israel banks and other residents, Israel imposed a deposit requirement of 20 per cent on the proceeds of such loans at no interest. In January 1979 this measure was replaced by a pro- hibition on such inflows. In April 1979 this prohibi- tion was terminated and replaced by a requirement that commercial banks pay interest to the central bank on foreign currency loans to residents and by raising the liquidity requirement on such loans. Korea changed the exchange control regulations in February 1978 to allow Korean business corporations to issue foreign exchange denominated bonds in the international capital market for the purpose of raising funds for the import of capital goods and overseas investment. Eligibility for bond issuance required the approval of the Ministry of Finance and was limited to those firms with a paid-up capital of more than W 10 billion and a dividend of over 10 per cent during each of the preceding three years. In Malaysia, the Government announced that starting in 1979 companies tendering for government con- tracts must have a minimum of 30 per cent Malaysian shareholding. Oman amended the existing Invest- ment Law in August 1978 by reducing the minimum required paid-up capital of local companies with for- eign participation from US$435,000 to US$87,000. In Senegal, a new investment code introduced in March 1978 extended its application to new sectors and withdrew the exemption from the business profit tax granted for approved investments under the pre- vious 1972 code, but continued to permit deductions of reinvested profits from taxable income. During the period under review, some developing countries introduced new measures in 1978 with respect to direct foreign borrowing. In December 1978 Argentina abolished all minimum deposit requirements, first introduced in May 1978, on private financial foreign borrowing and on trade- related credit operations, and reduced the minimum ma tu r i ty for foreign loans to residents. Brazil announced in June 1978 that foreign currency loans must be deposited with the Central Bank for a mandatory period of 30 days before borrowers could utilize the fund s; this period was extended in July to 120 days, in August to 150 days, and subse- quen t ly, in November, it was decided that the waiting period for loans affec ted by this measure would be extended to 30 days for 40 per cent of the amoun t, and 60 days for another 40 per cent. For foreign loans entering the country after November 23, 1978, 20 per cent of the proceeds would be released after 150 days, 40 per cent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. Brazil in November 1978 also raised from five to eight years the minimum required maturity for foreign currency loans by state-run agencies or by private enterprises with government guarantees. Egypt with effect from July 1, 1978 required all central government institu- tions, public authorities, and public sector companies to refer to the Central Bank before contracting any external debt repayable in convertible currency, with an original maturity of more than one year. In May the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency instructed major international banks to refra in f rom arranging syndicated loans in Saudi Arabian riyals without prior approval. 7. Gold A number of countries introduced new regulations concerning the treatment and valuation of gold. Colombia introduced a system of basing the calcula- tion of the 5 per cent tax credit certificates (CATs) granted to local producers of gold on the price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets during the week preceding the purchase of gold by the central bank; the central bank was also authorized to issue gold coins as legal tender. In the Philippines, the Central Bank announced during the year that it would purchase all fu tu re output of the country's gold m in ing firms, with the producers being paid in Philippine pesos based on the prevailing peso-U.S. dollar rate and on the London fixing price for gold; gold so acquired would be deemed part of the country's international reserves. In South Africa, the Reserve Bank f rom April 1, 1978, began to purchase gold from the mines at market-related prices; previously, the Reserve Bank purchased gold at the official price and, following the sale of the gold, paid to the mines the d ifference between the market price and the official price. In the United States, legislation was enacted permitting the U.S. Treasury to sell gold medallions in one ounce and one-half ounce sizes for a five-year period beginning in 1980. Export and import control regulations governing gold were liberalized in a number of countries. In March 1979 new regulations were issued by France s imp l ify ing imports and exports of industrial gold, which became exempt f rom prior authorization. In India, jewelers were permitted to replenish gold used in the manu fac tu re of jewelry sold abroad by pur- 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS chase f rom the State Bank of Ind ia, which wou ld, in tu rn, import gold for this purpose. On the o ther hand, the import or export w i thout special au thor iza- tion of gold coins wh ich are legal tender in a fo re ign coun t ry was prohibited in Italy. Japan removed restrictions on foreign trade in gold. Transactions in mone tary gold were exempted f rom value-added tax in Luxembourg, and the 7 per cent du ty on gold bu l l ion imports was abolished in Malaysia. In Pak is tan, the State Bank directed all banks incorpo- rated in the coun try not to u n d e r t a ke purchases or sales of gold bu l l ion both in and ou ts ide the coun t ry. In the Un i ted K ingdom, a relaxation of controls on U .K. residents buy ing low-fineness gold for indus t r ial purposes was in troduced. III. Regional Arrangements Developments in regional economic cooperation du r ing the period under rev iew invo lved a s treng then- ing or expansion of ex is t ing regional a r rangemen ts. Among the European coun tr ies, the most s ign if icant event was the commencement in March 1979 of the exchange rate and in te rven t ion system of the European Mone tary System, which was described in Section I, above. Among other developments w i th in the EEC, the t rans i t ional period for the acces- sion of Denma rk, Ireland, and the United K ingdom to the EEC provisions for the agricultural sector ended on J a n u a ry 1, 1979, by which date the com- mon price scheme for ag r icu l tu ral products became applicable in all countries of the EEC. Negotiations con t inued du r ing the period w i th respect to the applications by Greece, Portugal, and Spain to jo in the EEC. Discussions on Greece's accession entered the substantive phase in February 1978 and the Treaty of Accession was signed in May 1979, w i th fo rmal ra t if ica t ion expected by the end of 1980. Pend ing ra t if ica t ion and in the context of Greece's current association w i th the Commun i ty, the Additional Protocol to the A thens Agreement ex tend ing the EEC-Greece Association to Denmark, Ireland, and the United K ingdom entered into force on July 1, 1978. The second EEC-Greece Financial Protocol, which was signed on February 28, 1977, entered into force on August 1, 1978. The Council in June 1978 also endorsed Portugal's application for membership, and membership negotiations for- mally opened on October 17, 1978; no deadline for conclusion of the negotiations has been stipulated. The EEC and Portugal extended the interim com- mercial agreement of September 20, 1976 un t il the end of 1978, while wa i t ing for the entry into force 24 of the additional protocol of the same da te; the add i t ional protocol came into force on November 1, 1978. A new financial protocol with Portugal, which includes loans f rom the European Inves tment Bank ( E IB ), also came into force on the same date. In the case of Spain, the Council commenced formal negotiations on membership in the Commun i ty in February 1979. In the context of the EEC's overall Med i te r ranean approach, negotiations between the Commun i ty and Spain on the extension of the 1970 p re fe ren t ial trade agreement were resumed on February 8, 1978. Under the EEC's overall Mediterranean approach, the par l iamen tary procedures for ratification of the cooperation agreements and financial protocols with Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, the Syrian Arab Republic, and Tunisia were completed and the agreements came into force on November 1, 1978, releasing an amount of aid estimated at EUA 173 m i l l ion15 before the end of the year. The agreements provided for a total of EUA 639 million in financial aid to be committed before October 31, 1981. The agreements also provide for economic and trade cooperation, covering matters such as indus tr ial cooperation, prospecting, mining, process- ing of local raw materials, transfer of technology, ma rket research, training, and trade promotion. On February 8, 1978 the EEC and Israel signed an additional protocol and a financial protocol which added to the 1975 agreement on economic and commercial cooperation, the development of common scientific and technological actions, as well as the opening of a credit line of EUA 30 million by the EIB. These protocols were ratified and came into force on November 1, 1978. Negotiations between the EEC and Cyprus for the conclusion of the Sup- p lemen tary Protocol to the Association Agreement and a protocol laying down certain provisions relating to trade in agricultural products were completed on March 15, 1978. The two protocols came into force on J u ly 1, 1978. Preferential arrangements for agr icu l tural products f rom Cyprus will apply until December 31, 1979, when the first stage of the association agreement will come to an end. The financial protocol supplementing the association agreement between the EEC and Cyprus came into effect on January 1, 1979. The protocol provides for EEC financial assistance amounting to EUA 30 million; it is scheduled to last for five years from the 15 The value of the European un it of account is calculated da i ly on the basis of a basket of currencies of the members of the EEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS date it came into effect. The financial protocol between the EEC and Malta came into effect on November 1, 1978, while that between the EEC and Turkey was completed on March 5, 1979. In October 1978 agreement was reached to renegotiate the 1970 additional protocol to the association agree- ment with Tu rkey; meanwhile, the EEC Commission agreed to Turkey's request that the EEC suspend for five years Turkey's obligations to l i ft ta r i f fs on EEC imports, as required by the 1970 additional protocol. Under the EEC's overall Mediterranean approach, negotiations were also opened w i th Yugo- slavia in February 1979 aimed at concluding a new cooperation agreement to replace the previous trade agreement which expired on August 31, 1978; the EEC members agreed that the new agreement would be of a preferen t ial na tu re, thus resembling the other agreements concluded w i th Med i terranean countries. In the context of EEC relations w i th the ACP countries10 under the Lome Convention, Djibouti on February 2, 1978 became the fiftieth state to accede to the Convention. Accession agreements were signed with Cape Verde, Papua New Gu inea, and Sao Tome and Principe on March 28, 1977 and came into force on November 1, 1978. On July 18, 1978 the ACP-EEC Council of Ministers approved a request by the Solomon Islands for participation within the f ramewo rk of the Lome Convention. The Solomon Islands acceded to the Convention on September 27, 1978. Furthermore, the EEC Council gave approval for Tuvalu and Dominica, both former British territories, to join the Lome Convention, bringing the number of developing countries covered by the Convention to 56. During 1978, eight ACP countries (Benin, Guinea-Bissau, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Swaziland, Tanzania, Upper Volta, and Western Samoa) received transfers amoun t ing to EUA 31 16 The ACP coun tr ies consist of cer ta in developing coun- tries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region. The Lome Convention was signed in Lome on February 28, 1975 between the Community and 46 ACP countries. The original ACP countries were Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Burund i, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. Comoros, Seychelles, and Suriname joined during 1976. million under the STABEX system.17 For the first time, the Commission decided in 1978 on payments of advances under the STABEX system in addition to the annual transfers. The advances were made to The Gambia, Mauritania, Senegal, and Tonga and totaled EUA 27.4 million. For the first time, two countries, Cameroon and Fiji, made payments to the system totaling EUA 2.3 million. The Lome Convention is due to expire on March 1, 1980 and negotiations for a new Convention which will come into force in March 1980, started on July 24, 1978. EEC foreign ministers and representatives of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)18 meeting in Brussels in late November 1978 decided to begin negotiations on the content of a formal cooperation agreement between the EEC and the ASEAN. The second conference on EEC-ASEAN indus t r ial cooperation was held in Jakar ta on February 26-28, 1979. On June 19-20, 1978, the EFTA countries and Yugoslavia reaffirmed their intention to increase economic cooperation. In pu rsu it of this aim, the heads of the delegations agreed to establish a jo int EFT A-Yugoslavia Committee. This committee held its first mee t ing on November 6, 1978 at which a detailed exam ina t ion was made of the role of long- te rm indus tr ial cooperation, including jo int ventures. On December 7, 1978 Spain and the EFTA initialed a f ree trade agreement. This agreement, which is expected to take effect in early 1980, provides for ta r i ff reductions of 60 per cent on nearly all Spanish industrial products and some fishing and agricultural items. Ta r i f fs on some products clas- sified as "sensitive" will be reduced by 30 to 40 per cent. Simultaneously, Spain will lower ta r i f fs by between 25 and 60 per cent on industrial goods f rom EFTA countries. This would give EFTA exporters of industrial goods the same access to the Spanish market as EEC exporters have by v ir tue of the trade agreement of 1970 between Spain and the EEC, and would give Spanish exporters of industrial goods the same access to EFTA markets as they have to the EEC marke t. The Spain-EFTA pact also contains a "dynamic clause" by which EFTA exports will have access to Spanish markets under the same conditions as those of the EEC, while Spain would 17 A system for guaran tee ing the stabilization of earnings f rom exports to the EEC by ACP countries in respect of impor tant export commodities which are affected by fluctua- tions in price and quantity. 18 The members of ASEAN are Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS be enabled to export to EFTA in accordance w i th the EEC regulations. The harmonization of excise duties among Benelux countries took place on Janua ry 1, 1978. The arrangement provides for a gradual unification by 1984 of the taxes on beer, wine, nonalcoholic bever- ages, sugar, tobacco, cigarettes, and petroleum products. At the prime ministerial council meeting of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA )10 on June 29, 1978, Viet Nam was admitted as the ten th member of CMEA and the th i rd member from outside Eastern Europe. The A rab Monetary Fund (AMF ) ,20 which was established in February 1977 to assist members w i th balance of payments d iff icu l t ies and to promote Arab economic integration, made its first loans in August 1978, amoun t ing to US$17.5 m i l l ion for Egypt and US$7.5 million for Sudan. On November 21, 1978 the Heads of State of the West A f r ican Economic Commun i ty (WAEC )21 meeting in Bamako agreed to establish a Solidarity and In te rven t ion Fund for the Economic Develop- ment of the Commun i ty under the auspices of the General Secretariat of the WAEC; annual subscrip- tions of CFAF 1.5 billion are to be con tr ibu ted by each member coun try. At the ir summ it mee t ing in April 1978, the Heads of State of the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r ican States (EcowA s )22 adopted May 28, 1979 as the e f fec t ive da te for a freeze of customs t a r i f fs on goods from other ECOWAS members in all member states of the commun i ty. This cons t i tu tes the first step toward complete abolition of customs du t ies among ECOWAS members. At a m in is ter ial conference in November 1978, it was decided, in principle, to adopt a mu l t i la teral agreement on the f ree movement of persons w i th in the commun i ty. A d r a ft mu l t i- lateral agreement for cons ide ra t ion and s ign a tu re 19 The pa r t ic ipan ts in the CMEA are Bu lga r ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Rom an i a, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 20 The p a r t i c ip an ts in the AMF a re A lg e r i a, B a h r a i n, Egyp t, Iraq, Jordan, K uw a i t, Lebanon, L i b y an A r ab Jama- h i r i y a, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, Om an, Pa le s t ine, Qatar, Saudi A rab ia, Somalia, Sudan, Sy r ian A r ab R e p u b l i c, Tun is ia, Un i ted A r ab Em ira tes, Yemen A r ab R e p u b l i c, and People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. 21 The membe rs of the WAEC are Ivo ry Coast, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, N i g e r, Senegal, and Upp er Vo l ta. 22 The membe rs of ECOWAS are B en in, Cape Ve rde, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu in e a, Gu in e a -B i s s au, Ivo ry Coast, Liberia, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, N i g e r, N i g e r i a, Senegal, S ierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 26 will be submitted to the next ECOWAS summit meeting scheduled to take place during 1979. On June 16, 1978 members of the ECOWAS established the West African Center for Project Programming and Execution (MUL POC ). The principal role of the new organization, created by the United Nations Eco- nomic Commission for Africa (ECA ), is to mobilize the resources coming from outside West Africa with a view to encouraging the realization of development projects in that region. At a meeting of the Board of Governors of the A f r ican Development Bank in May 1978, it was decided that the capital stock of the Bank, owned by governments of 48 independent African states, should be open to non-African states. To reassure present members about the Bank's determination to retain its "African character," the governors pro- posed that voting rights of shares should be so arranged that African members always hold at least 66% per cent of the votes. In November 1978 the A f r ican Development Bank opened negotiations with a number of non-Afr ican states28 interested in sub- scribing to its capital. Following the break-up of the East Afr ican Com- m u n i ty ( EAC )24 in 1977, Kenya and Tanzania in i t ia ted new t rade negotiations in October 1978. At a meeting on June 27, 1978, ministers of 12 A f r ican nations-"' signed an agreement of intent and comm i tment to establish a preferen t ial trade area for eas tern and southern Afr ica by the end of 1980. The de ta i ls of the plan are yet to be worked out. The plan, wh ich is being sponsored by the ECA, is considered the first ma jor step toward an economic commun i ty. The Mano R iver Un ion, a customs link between Sierra Leone and Liberia, harmonized tariff s t ruc tu res between the two countries on Ju ly 1, 1978. On June 28, 1978 Suriname became the twen ty- s ix th member of the Latin American Economic Sys- tem (LAE S ) .2 <5 At a LAES Council meeting in 2:5 A rgen t ina, Aus t r ia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Federal R e p u b l ic of Ge rmany, F in land, France, I ta ly, Japan, K uw a i t, N e t h e r l a n d s, N o rw a y, Saudi A r ab i a, Spain, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l a n d, Un i t ed A r ab Em i ra te s, Un i ted Kingdom, United States, and Yugos lav ia. 24 The m emb e rs of the EAC were Kenya, Tanzania, and Ug and a. 25 Bo t swana, E th iop ia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, M a l aw i, M a u r i t i u s, Mozamb ique, Swaziland, Tanzania, Ug and a, and Zamb ia. 2fi The p a r t i c ip an ts in the LAES are A rgen t ina, Barbados, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Ch i le, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guate- m a l a, G u y a n a, H a i t i, Hondu ras, Jama ica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, P a r agu ay, Pe ru, Su r iname, Trinidad and Tobago, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Caraballeda, Venezuela, on April 3-5, 1978, it was decided to explore the establishment of a fund to finance studies of projects initiated by LAES com- mittees. A LAES consultative meeting in Punta del Este, Uruguay, on November 20-24, 1978, drew up draft guidelines for a joint Latin American policy for dealing with trade actions taken by the EEC. Eight countries (Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, Suriname, and Venezuela) signed the Amazon Pact Treaty in Brasilia on July 3, 1978. The Pact consists essentially of a cooperation agreement designed to promote the economic development of natural resources in the Amazon Basin area and to implement measures to improve the transportation and communication facilities within the region. The Treaty will enter into effect 30 days after ratification by the contracting parties. The Commission of the Andean Pact countries,27 at a meeting in Lima on February 24, 1978, approved a group of projects for the development of food technology in the Andean region, and the adop- tion of standard import and export certificates for agricultural products. On April 21, 1978 member countries signed the Protocol of Arequipa which modified the original Cartagena Agreement establish- ing the Andean Pact, as follows: ( 1) the deadline for approval of all outstanding industrial programs, which was to have expired December 31, 1978, was extended to December 31, 1979; (2) the deadline for approval of the common external tar iff was also extended for another year to December 31, 1979; (3) ta r i f fs on certain protected products f rom Bolivia and Ecuador were to be eliminated by the other three countries at the end of 1978; (4) annual cuts under the automatic tariff reduction program were reduced to 5 per cent a year for three years starting December 31, 1980, 10 per cent a year for five years starting December 31, 1983, 15 per cent at the end of 1988, and 20 per cent at the end of 1989. During 1978 some progress was made in implement- ing the Andean Pact automotive indus try program approved in September 1977. Discussions continued on the upda t ing of the metal working and the petrochemical programs, and on a d r a ft establishing the proposed Andean Tribunal, designed to settle disputes arising f rom the imp lemen ta t ion of the various industrial programs. In July 1978 the five Andean Pact countries implemented an earlier agreement to establish the Andean Reserve Fund designed to help member countries with balance of paymen ts problems and 27 Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. to promote the coordination of their monetary and foreign exchange policies. The Fund is to have a capital of US$210 million within four years and US$240 million within eight years. Colombia, Peru, and Venezuela are to contribute US$60 million each to the Fund over four years, and Bolivia and Ecuador US$30 million each over eight years. At a meeting of the members of the River Plate Basin Fund,28 in La Paz on May 3, 1978, it was announced that Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay would be the first countries to benefit from the Fund which was established at the end of 1976. The inaugural meeting of the Trilateral Parana River Conference29 took place in Asuncion on March 14, 1978. The purpose of the conference was to facilitate the implementation of a major energy program on the Parana River. The first step in the program, the Brazilian-Paraguayan Itaipu dam project, is currently being constructed. Negotiations continued throughout 1978 in an e f fo rt to reach agreement among the three countries regarding the second Corpus dam to be built jointly by Argentina and Paraguay. Intraregional trade in the Caribbean Common Market ( CAR ICOM) 30 remained low in 1978, follow- ing the sharp decline in 1977, which occurred mainly as a result of import restrictions imposed by some member countries. At a CARICOM Ministerial meet- ing in Kingston in July 1978, however, Jamaica and Guyana announced their intention to ease some import restrictions. The meeting also reached agree- ment on CARICOM'S common external tar iff and rules of origin, both of which were scheduled to come into effect on January 1, 1979. In June 1978, a meeting of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development31 established a Caribbean Develop- ment Facility aimed at mobilizing external resources for development financing in the area. At a meeting of economic ministers of the Central American Common Market (CACM) on Septem- ber 1, 1978, in Guatemala City, the four member countries,32 together with Honduras, agreed in 28 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. 29 The par t ic ipa t ing countries are Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay. 30 The members of CARICOM are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 31 The group is composed of a number of international agencies and governments, inc lud ing members of the Inter- na t ional Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Caribbean region. 32 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS principle that a res truc tured common external ta r i ff would come into effect on June 30, 1979. On Janua ry 1, 1978 the ASEAN P re fe ren t ial Trading Arrangement (PTA) came into force for 71 items. In June 1978, at a meeting of economic ministers in Jaka r ta, 755 other items were added to the P re fe ren t ial Trad ing A r rangement and it was agreed that at each ASEAN trade mee t ing in f u t u r e, the five member coun tr ies would each propose 100 other products for inclusion. At a mee t ing of ASEAN economic m in is ters in Kua la Lumpur in December 1978, an add i t ional list of 500 items was approved, b r ing ing the total number of items covered by the Preferen t ial Trading Arrangement to 1,326. Agreement was also reached to establish an ASEAN emergency rice reserve amoun t ing to 50,000 metric tons. On J a n u a ry 20, 1978 a protocol was signed in Tokyo, by Indones ia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philip- pines, Singapore, and Tha i land to ex tend for ano ther year the activities of the ir jo int Southeast Asian Promotion Center for trade, inves tmen t, and tourism. On J a n u a ry 5, 1978 an agreement to establish an In te r im Committee for the Coordination of Investi- gations of the Lower Mekong River Basin was signed in V ien t iane by the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam. The purpose of the Committee is to facilitate implementation of a number of joint projects on the Mekong River. The Solomon Islands and Tuvalu were admitted to fu ll membership of the South Pacific Forum33 at its annual conference in Niue in September 1978. The Forum meeting agreed to establish a South Pacific Regional Fisheries Organization, and to explore the possibility of a nonreciprocal trade agreement between Aus tra l ia and New Zealand, on the one hand, and the other members of the Forum on the other. No ma jor developments were reported du r ing the period w i th respect to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Area (NAFTA) and the Papua New Guinea-Australia Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement. •"3The pa r t ic ipan ts in the South Pacific Forum are Aus t ra l ia, Cook Islands, Fiji, N au ru, New Zealand, Niue Island, Papua New Gu inea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Western Samoa. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Reproduced below are Paragraphs 1-5 of Part A of the Resolution of the European Council, issued on December 5, 1978, on the establishment of the European Monetary System and related matters. ANNEX A. THE EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM 1. Introduction 1.1 In B remen we discussed a "scheme for the creation of closer mon e t a ry co-operation leading to a zone of mone tary s tab i l i ty in Europe." We regarded such a zone "as a highly desirable objective" and en- visaged "a durab le and effective scheme." 1.2 Today, a f t er c a r e f ul ex am in a t ion of the prepara- tory work done by the Council and other C omm u n i ty bodies, we are agreed as fo l lows: A European Monetary System (EMS) will be set up on 1st Janua ry 1979. 1.3 We are f i rm ly resolved to en su re the las t ing success of the EMS by policies conduc ive to greater s tab i l i ty at home and abroad for both def ic it and surp lus countries. 1.4 The fo l low ing chap ters deal p r im a r i ly w i th the in i t ial phase of the EMS. We r em a in f i rm ly resolved to conso l ida te, not later t h an two years a f t er the s ta rt of the scheme, in to a final system the p rov is ions and procedures thus c rea ted. This system w i ll en ta il the crea t ion of the European Mone tary Fund as announced in the conclusions of the European Council mee t ing at Bremen on 6th and 7th Ju ly 1978, as well as the f u ll u t i l iza t ion of the ECU as a reserve asset and a means of settlement. It w i ll be based on adequate legislation at the Commun i ty as well as the national level. 2. The ECU and its Functions 2.1 A European Currency Unit (ECU) will be at the center of the EMS. The va lue and the composition of the ECU will be identical with the va lue of the EUA at the outset of the system. 2.2 The ECU will be used: (a) as the denominator ( n um e r a i r e) for the exchange rate mechanism; (b) as the basis for a divergence ind ica tor; (c) as the denominator for operations in both the in terven t ion and the credit mechanisms; (d) as a means of settlement between monetary authorities of the European Community. 2.3 The weights of currencies in the ECU will be re-examined and if necessary revised w i th in six months of the entry into force of the system and the rea f ter every five years or, on request, if the weight of any currency has changed by 25 per cent. Revisions have to be mu tua l ly accepted; they will, by themselves, not mod ify the external va lue of the ECU. They will be made in line w i th unde r ly ing economic cr i ter ia. 3. The Exchange Rate and Intervention Mechanisms 3.1 Each cu r rency w i ll have an ECU-related central ra te. These central rates w i ll be used to establish a grid of b i la te ral exchange rates. A r o u nd these exchange rates fluctuation ma rg ins of ±2 .25 per cent will be established. EEC countries with presently floating currencies may opt for wider margins up to ±6 per cent at the outset of the EMS; these ma rg ins should be gradua l ly reduced as soon as economic cond i t ions pe rm i t. A Member State wh ich does not par t ic ipa te in the exchange ra te mechan i sm at the outset may participate at a la ter date. 3.2 A d j u s tm e n ts of central rates will be subject to m u t u al agreement by a common procedure, which will comprise all countries pa r t ic ipa t ing in the exchange rate mechan ism and the Commission. There will be recip- rocal consu l ta t ion in the Commun i ty framework about im p o r t a nt decisions concerning exchange rate policy between countries participating and any country not p a r t i c ip a t ing in the system. 3.3 In principle, in te rven t ions will be made pa r t ic ipa t ing currencies. 3.4 Intervention in par t ic ipa t ing currencies is com- pulsory when the in terven t ion points defined by the fluctuation margins are reached. 3.5 An ECU basket formu la will be used as an ind ica tor to detect divergences between Commun i ty currencies. A "threshold of divergence" will be fixed at 75 per cent of the max imum spread of divergence for each currency. It will be calculated in such a way as to e l im ina te the influence of weight on the probab i l i ty of reaching the threshold. 3.6 When a currency crosses its "threshold of diver- gence," this results in a presumption that the authorities concerned will correct this s i tua t ion by adequate measures, name ly: (a) diversified intervention; (b) measures of domestic monetary policy; (c) changes in central rates; (d) other measures of economic policy. In case such measures, on account of special circum- stances, are not taken, the reasons for this shall be given to the other authorities, especially in the "concertation between central banks." Consultations will, if necessary, then take place in the appropriate Community bodies, including the Council of Ministers. in 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS After six months these provisions shall be reviewed in the light of experience. At that date the questions regarding imbalances accumulated by divergent creditor or debtor countries will be studied as well. 3.7 A Very Short-Term Facility of an un l im i ted amount w i ll be established. Settlements will be made 45 days a f ter the end of the mon th of intervention w i th the possibility of prolongation for another three mon ths for amoun ts l im i ted to the size of debtor quo tas in the Short-Term Monetary Support. 3.8 To serve as a means of settlement, an initial supp ly of ECUs will be provided by the EMCF against the deposit of 20 per cent of gold and 20 per cent of dollar reserves curren t ly held by central banks. This operation will take the fo rm of specified, revolving swap arrangements. By periodical review and by an appropr ia te procedure it will be ensured that each central bank will ma in ta in a deposit of at least 20 per cent of these reserves w i th the EMCF. A Member State not pa r t ic ipa t ing in the exchange ra te mechan ism may p a r t i c ip a te in th is i n i t i al operation on the basis described above. 4. The Credit Mechanisms 4.1 The ex is t ing credit mechan isms w i th the ir present ru les of application w i ll be m a in t a in ed for the in i t ial phase of the EMS. They w i ll be consolidated in to a single f u nd in the f inal phase of the EMS. 4.2 The credit mechan isms will be extended to an am o u nt of ECU 25 billion of effec t ive ly ava i lab le credit. The distribution of this amount will be as follows: Short-Term Monetary Support = ECU 14 billion Medium-Term Financial Assistance = ECU 11 bil- lion. 4.3 The dura t ion of the Short-Term Monetary Sup- port will be extended for another three months on the same conditions as the first extension. 4.4 The increase of the Medium-Term Financial Assistance w i ll be completed by 30th June 1979. In the mean t ime, countries which still need national legislation are expected to make their extended medium-term quotas available by an in ter im financing agreement of the cen- tral banks concerned. 5. Third Countries and International Organizations 5.1 The durab i l i ty of the EMS and its international implications require coordination of exchange rate policies vis-a-vis third countries and, as far as possible, a concertation with the monetary authorities of those countries. 5.2 European countries with pa r t icu la r ly close eco- nom ic and financial ties with the European Communities may par t ic ipa te in the exchange rate and intervention mechanisms. Par t ic ipa t ion will be based upon agreements between cen t ral banks; these agreements will be communicated to the Council and the Commission of the European Commun i t ies. 5.3 The EMS is and will rema in f u l ly compatible w i th the relevant Articles of the IMF Agreement. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT T WO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part Two, individual surveys of the exchange sys- tems of the member countries of the Fund, including two nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other country which is not a member of the Fund is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1978. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments that took place early in 1979. The description of an exchange system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restric- tive systems in their entirety, except for the tar iff struc- ture and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit require- ments, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes du r ing 1978" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on inter- na t ional transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments re la t ing to regional cooperation. A s tandard ized framework has been employed in d r a f t ing the surveys: each system is described under s im i lar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more signifi- cant changes dur ing 1978. The section on Exchange Rate System has been expanded somewhat to take account of the notifications of exchange arrangements that member countries fu rn ished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2( a) du r ing 1978, and also later developments. The structure of exchange marke ts is described and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1978, unless stated other- wise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and adm in is t ra t ion of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements affec t ing the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a coun try has concluded payments agreements w i th other countries, the terms of these agreements o f ten lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral 32 payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts main- tained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licens- ing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other inter- national transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted, according to adm in is tra t ive decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of pe rm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limita- tions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where th is is opera t ive is ind ica ted, with an outline of the requ iremen ts imposed on the proceeds f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange he has earned against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requ irement that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- e rn ing exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given, and any l im i ta t ions on the import of foreign and domestic bankno tes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or l im i ta t ions attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Pay- ments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, there is a summa ry of the principal pro- visions in the regulations that govern the holding, negotia- tion, and import and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of A f g h a n i s t an is the A f g h a n i. A f g h a n i- stan m a in t a ins a mu l t ip le exchange rate system w i th d i f f e r i ng rates be ing quoted by Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank ( the cen tral b a n k ), the comme rc ial banks, and by dealers in the money bazaa r. Da A fgh an i s t an Bank quotes o f f ic ial b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dol- lar, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, of Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively, per US$1. The official selling rate is applied to cer ta in fo re ign exchange paymen ts by the Cen tral Government (debt service, con t r ibu t ions to i n t e r n a t i o n al o rgan iza t ion s, and the fo re ign exchange requ i remen ts of A f g h an embass ies and m iss ions a b r o a d ). The off ic ial b u y i ng rate is applied to purchases of b i la teral agreement currencies for ma in tenance in A fgh an i s t an of embassies and state t rad ing organiza- tions by the respective b i la teral pa r tner coun tr ies. A ll o ther t r an s a c t ions take p lace at d i f f e r e nt rates th rough e i ther the b anks or the money bazaa r. Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank quo tes ope ra t ional f ree ma rket rates for the U.S. d o l l a r, wh ich are ad ju s t ed f r om time to t ime. On December 31, 1978 these rates were Af 46.00 b u y i n g, and Af 47.00 se l l ing, per US$1. Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank's ope ra t ional b u y i ng ra te is applicable only to the proceeds f r om exports of cotton, fe r t i l ize r, k a r aku l, n a tu r al gas, wool, and meat f rom the Herat slaughter- house; its operational selling rate is applicable to trans- actions of the Cen t ral Gov e rnm ent and of pub l ic sector entities not eligible for the official rate. With the excep- tion of these transac t ions, and those effected at the o f f ic ial rate, all other transac t ions are effected through e i ther the money bazaar at f ree ma rket rates or the commercial banks at the banks' in te rven t ion rates. On December 31, 1978 the free ma rket rates in the bazaar were Af 39.61 buy ing, and Af 39.80 selling, per US$1, and the in te rven t ion rates of the commercial banks were Af 39.00 buy ing, and Af 40.00 selling, per US$1. The rates quoted by the commercial banks are used for in te rven t ion purposes by Da A fghan is tan Bank. Da A fgh an i s t an Bank also posts ope ra t ional f ree mar- ket rates for deu tsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Ind ian rupees, Pak is tan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss f r an c s, wh ich reflect th e ir va lue re la t ive to the U.S. do l lar in in te rna t ional markets. Da A fghan i s tan Bank f rom t ime to time buys and sells in the f ree market bilateral agreement dollars resulting pa r t ly f rom loans for consumer goods under certain of A fghan is tan 's b i la te ral paymen ts agreements; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by government commerc ial and indu s t r ial enterprises for the ir impo r ts f rom the countries concerned.1 On Decem- ber 31, 1978 the se l l ing rate for clearing dollars was 1 People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, Czechos lovak ia, and U.S.S.R. Af 47.00 per US$1 and the buy ing rate for the proceeds f r om exports of cotton, fe r t i l ize r, ka raku l, na tu ral gas, and wool to the bilateral agreement countries was Af 46.00 per US$1. W i th the exception of these trans- actions and those effected at the official rate, all other bilateral agreement dollars are purchased at the com- mercial banks' f ree market rate. Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank charges commissions ranging f r om 0.10 per cent to 0.375 per cent on exchange transac t ions. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government th rough Da A fghan i s tan Bank. The control is fac i l i- ta ted by the existence of relatively large companies spec ia l iz ing in the export of such commodities as k a r a k u l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these compan ies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commod i t ies, w i th the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries with which A fghan is tan has b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen ts1 must be made in the fore ign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton to other coun tr ies must be obtained in convertible cur- rencies. There are no other prescription of currency requ i remen ts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license but import trans- ac t ions must be registered before orders are placed ab road. Impo r ts of a few items (e.g., some drugs, l iquo r, a rms, and amm u n i t i o n) are prohibited on g rounds of pub l ic po l icy or for security reasons; in some ins tances, however, special permission to import these goods may be g ran ted. The impo r ta t ion of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes pr ices) for commodities to be traded. Most of the t rade w i th bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usua l ly both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton, na tural gas, and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. The present customs ta r i ff s truc ture was promulgated in J u ne 1974 and has since then been modified in the annu al budgets. Actual tariff rates vary considerably but are usua l ly between 20 per cent and 35 per cent on stated specific values. Service charges, Red Crescent 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN charges, and the fixed tax are closely related to the import t a r i f f. The service charge is assessed at 2 per cent of the import du ty payable, while Red Crescent charges are assessed at 1 per cent of the total of import du ty plus the service charge. The fixed tax is assessed at 6 per cent of the total c.i.f. value plus all the above du ty and charges payable. The application of the fixed tax is, however, d ifferent for goods classified as a monopoly and a monopoly tax is payable on such imports. The monopoly tax is charged on the total of the c.i.f. value, the import duty, the service charge, and the Red Crescent charge, plus a commission charge assessed at 2 per cent of the whole. The monopoly tax is then assessed at 15 per cent of this total. In addition, there is a luxury tax on certain imported goods, which takes the form of a flat rate special charge called an authorization charge and a variable rate (according to the coun try of origin of the goods concerned) called a privilege charge. The authorization charge is assessed at 5 per cent of the total of the import du ty, the service charge, the Red Crescent charge, the monopoly tax (if applicable), and the ex-Kabul c.i.f. va lue of the goods in question. The calculation of the privilege charge is based on the sum of the ex-Kabul c.i.f. value for the goods and all charges payab le as described above other than the fixed tax. Payments for imports through the b ank ing system to payments agreement countries may be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an unde r tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equ iva lent to the payment made through the bank ing system. A deposit of up to 30 per cent of the c . i .f. value is required by banks f rom private enter- prises upon establishment of a letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles Central government paymen ts for foreign debt serv- ice and certain other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at intervention and free market rates. There is an exchange allocation from the banks for tourist, student, business, and medical travel abroad of the equivalent of US$200 a person a trip, but larger amounts are made available upon appli- cation supported by evidence of the bona fide na ture of the travel. For medical treatment abroad there are, in addition, allocations for accompanying persons. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 10,000 for tourist travel, Af 5,000 for business travel, and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Specific permission is required for the export by travelers of foreign cur- rency notes in excess of the equivalent of US$200. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license but export transactions must be registered. Exports of 34 a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Karakul is not norma l ly exported to payments agreement countries, but may be sold at auction in Leningrad against payment in convertible currencies. Receipts f rom exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered. The net proceeds of exports of these three commodities and of exports of raisins, na tu ral gas, and fertilizer may be sold to Da Afghanistan Bank at its operational market rate, while the net pro- ceeds of all other exports must either be sold at inter- vention or free market rates or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, raisins, and all other dried fru i ts .2 Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the banks' intervention rate or the bazaar rate. Receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts from the embas- sies and state trading organizations of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at intervention or free market rates through either the banks or the money bazaar. Travelers entering A fghan is tan may bring in any amount in A fgh an banknotes. They may also bring in any amount in foreign currency but should declare that amount when entering the country if they intend to take out any left over amount in excess of US$200 when leaving the country. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Com- mittee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul p rov ince ), beginning f rom the date of the first sales of products resulting f rom the new investment; (2) exemp- tion from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods ); ( 3) exemption f rom taxes on dividends for four years a f ter the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemp- tion f rom export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their 2 Export taxes on raisins apply if prices exceed certain specified limits. The price received by cotton exporters is subject to a ceiling of Af 61,600 a ton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requirements f rom enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are no more than 15 per cent higher than the price of impor tab le equiva- lents. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghan is tan can only take place through jo int ventures, w i th foreign participation not exceeding 49 per cent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Inves tment Committee shall require no f u r t h er license to operate in A fghan is tan. Payments of principal and interest on loans f rom abroad may be remitted free ly to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total registered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any fo rm. Impo r ts of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and s i lver in any fo rm other than jewelry requ i re licenses issued by the Counc il of M in is te rs; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and indu s t r ial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewe l ry and of other articles con ta in ing minor quantities AFGHANISTAN of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1978 May 9. Exchange allocations for travel were reduced f rom US$5,000 to US$200, but larger amounts would be made available for legitimate travel purposes. June 20. The exchange ra te for the proceeds f rom exports other than cotton, fertilizer, karakul, natural gas, and wool was moved from Af 46 per US$1 to the commercial banks' and bazaar rates. July 1. The official buying rate of Af 44.70 per US$1 for convertible currency salaries of foreign employees was eliminated. September 1. The bilateral agreement with India was te rm ina ted. Future settlements would be on a convertible currency basis. October 5. It was announced that a deposit of 20-30 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue of imports would be required by the b anks upon establishment of a letter of credit in favor of any private enterprise. November 20. Proceeds f rom exports of raisins were to be exchanged at the banks' intervention rate or the bazaar rate. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Since January 21, 1974 Algeria has followed an independent exchange rate policy. Daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, and other specified currencies1 are established by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a fixed relationship between the d inar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative impor tance of paymen ts, inc lud ing capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A fixed ma rg in of DA 0.015 is applied between the buy- ing and selling rates of the d inar and the U.S. dollar, and on December 31, 1978 the Central Bank's buying and selling rates were DA 3.8290 and DA 3.8440, respectively, per US$1. An encouragement prem ium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians wo rk ing abroad. The prem ium is ad jus ted so as to ensure that the exchange rate for such remittances is DA 1 = F 1. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Cen tral B ank; authorized banks must clear their fore ign currency position w i th the ir fore ign correspondents at the end of each day but, under cer ta in conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. There are no fo rw a rd exchange facilities. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of F inance and the Central Bank have general ju r isd ic t ion over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the fo rmu la t ion of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for the ir application by the authorized banks. Au tho r i ty over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commer- cial banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion. Impo rt and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce w i th in the l im i ts of a general import program. Impo rt and export licenses require the visa of the Cen tral Bank. The Societe Na t iona le pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transpor t, la T rans fo rma- tion et la Commerc ia l isa t ion des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over impor ts and domes- tic sales of pe tro leum and pe t ro leum products, and hand les most exports of these commodities. Inves tment of fo re ign cap i tal in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a Na t ional Investment Committee in order to ob ta in the bene f i ts of the Inves tment Code. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r ies w i th wh ich no paymen ts ag reemen ts are in force are made in conve r t ib le curren- 1 A u s t r i an schillings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish k ro- n e r, deu tsche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i re, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, pounds s t e r l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss f ranc s. 36 cies. Settlements with countries w i th which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian d inars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Conver t ib le Dinars or In ternal Nonresident Accounts. There are at present three types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without au thor iza t ion and may be credited with payments from any coun try. Balances in such accounts opened prior to Janua ry 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty have been released for transfer abroad. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accoun ts) may be opened by individuals or jur id ical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits tha t, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free f rom any res tr ic t ions on t rans fe r. They may not be credited with amoun ts that are transferab le to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, to make payments in Algeria, or for the provision of for- eign bankno tes which the account holder intends to take out of Algeria. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debit position. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior au tho r iza t ion, in the name of any physical person res id ing in Algeria, but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty, who in t ends to leave Algeria to re tu rn to the coun t ry of origin, and also for nonresident nationals. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th an amount equiva- lent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; w i th the proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid d irec t ly by a no tary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other paymen ts, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other specific payments. These accoun ts may be debited w i thout prior approval for cer- ta in paymen ts in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Ou twa rd t r an s f e rs requ ire ind iv idual approval. Nonres iden ts may m a i n t a in certain accounts in Algeria th at are fed w i th the p roceed s - f rom the conver- sion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne-devises). Depositors receive a p r em ium equ iva lent in principle to one eighth of the amoun ts deposited; in practice, the p rem ium is a flexible one en su r ing an e f fec t ive conver- 2 A lge r ia ma in ta ins paymen ts agreements w i th Albania, Guinea, Gu inea -B i s sau, and U.S.S.R. Specified noncomme rc ial settlements w i th Morocco and Tun is ia are channe led th rough a d i rh am account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tun is ian d ina rs at the Central Bank of Tun is ia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sion rate of F 1 = DA 1. W i thd rawa ls may be made only in A lger ian dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel, Rhodes ia, and Sou th A f r ica are prohibited. Certain impo r ts are p roh ib i ted regardless of o r ig in. Law No. 78-02 of Feb rua ry 11, 1978 gives the Gov e rnm ent a monopo ly over f o r e i gn t rade. A ll impo r ts a re pe rm i t ted, in p r inc ip le, in accordance w i th an annual import program. This is imp lemen ted m a i n ly th rough global impo rt au tho r iza t ions (autorisations globales d'importation or AG I) g ran ted to pub l ic en te rp r ises. Impo r ts made "w i thout paymen t" (sans paiement), i.e., impo r ts wh ich do not invo lve compensa t ion of any k i n d, are in no way commercial in n a tu r e, and are not sub- ject to any specific p roh ib i t ion, are exempt f rom all exchange and t rade control fo rma l i t ie s, when va lued at DA 5,000 or less. The Gove rnmen t 's monopoly over the im p o r t a t i on of commod i t ies is e f fec ted th rough the O f f ice N a t i o n al de C omm e r c i a l i s a t i on ( O N A C O ), the Office A lge r ien In te rp ro fe s s ionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Office N a t i o n al de Comm e r c i a l i s a t ion des P rodu i ts V i t i v i n i c o l es (ONCV ), the Societe N a t i o n a le des Tabacs et A l lum e t t es ( SNTA ), the Societe N a t i o n a le d 'Ed i t ion et de D i f f u s i on ( SN ED ), the Societe Na t iona le de S ide ru rg ie (SNS ), the Societe N a t i o n a le de Construc- t ions M e c an iqu es ( SONA COM E ), SONATRACH, and other s im i l ar o rgan iza t ions. Pr ior to the t ransac t ion, a ll impo r ts mu st be dom i- ciled w i th an au thor ized b ank, to wh ich the necessary impo rt documen ts must be presen ted and th rough wh ich a ll p aym en ts re la ted to the t r an s a c t ion must be made. Un less the Cen t ral Bank approves otherwise, advance paymen ts may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the impo rt va lue, wh ichever is sma l ler. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les to a ll coun t r ies requ i re the approval of the Cen t ral Bank. When suppo r t ing docu- men ts are presented, however, approval may be granted by au tho r ized bank s, or some t imes by the Postal Adm in i s- t ra t ion, either free ly or up to specified l im i ts for ce r ta in paymen ts such as ( 1) those re la t ing to approved trade transac t ions and m a r i t ime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) t ran s fe rs of sa la r ies and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) adv e r t i s ing expenses. For paymen ts for w h i ch the app roval a u t h o r i ty has not been delegated, the g ran t ing of exchange must be au thor ized by either the Central Bank or the M in is try of Finance. Certain public enterprises, wh ich receive special exchange allo- ca t ions (budget devises), may use these f ree ly for pay- m en ts for specified inv is ib les, i n c l u d i ng t ran spo r ta t ion and other services contracted abroad. The t r a n s f er of f am i ly rem i t tances is suspended. Res iden ts of o ther coun tr ies wo rk ing in Algeria und er the programs for technical cooperation or for pub l ic ALGERIA enterprises and agencies or for ce r ta in mixed companies may t r an s f er abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as fo l low s: 55 per cent for single persons and marr ied persons h a v i ng the ir f am i l i es in A lge r ia; 75 per cent for persons h av ing the ir fam i l ies ab road; 85 per cent for emp loyees of m ines and the hyd roca rbon sector; and 100 per cent for employees who spend the ir vacations abroad ( t he t r a n s f er be ing l im i ted to the du ra t ion of the ir leave and not exceeding one mon th ). For other wo rke rs who have con trac ts w i th other employers and hold the necessary emp loyment documen t s, the amoun ts t h at may be t r an s f e r r ed are 35, 55, and 100 per cent. The paymen ts must be t r a n s f e r r ed once a mon th on the basis of the r emun e r a t ion for the prev ious mon th. Per- sons m a k i ng such t r an s f e rs are not en t i t led to a l loca t ions for o ther personal t ran s fe r s. For res iden ts t rave l ing by air or sea to fo re ign countries, i n c l u d i ng coun t r ies in the fo rmer French Franc Area, other than for med ical reasons, the fo r e ign exchange allo- ca t ion is equ iv a l ent to DA 300 a person a t r ip (DA 150 for ch i ld ren u n d er 15) and is de l ivered on presentation of a va l id passport and t ravel vouchers; for overland t rave l, the a l loca t ion is DA 300 a person a ca lendar semes ter for adu l ts and DA 150 for ch i ldren under 15. For those t r av e l ing for med ical reasons the a l lowance is DA 800 a person a tr ip if the person is older than 15, and DA 400 for a ch i ld u n d er 15. These a l loca t ions are not app l i c ab le to persons l i v i ng in border areas. Algerian wo rke rs who have permission to em igra te are en t i t led to an exchange a l loca t ion upon depa r tu re. Em ig r ant Alger- ian wo rke rs who take the ir vaca t ions in A lger ia, may upon re tu rn abroad repurchase foreign exchange equiva- l e nt to one fifth of the am o u nt sold upon a r r iva l, but not exceed ing DA 1,000. Foreign exchange for private bus iness t r av e l, un less deb i ted to an EDAC or EDAB Account (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ), is subject to au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank and a l loca t ions may not exceed DA 1,500 a trip. P i lg r ims t rave l ing to Saudi A rab ia in 1978 obtained Saudi A rab ian r iya ls up to the equ iva lent of DA 4,800 a person. The amount of this a l lowance is fixed for each p i l g r im a ge and may be f u r n i s h ed in the fo rm of checks for those t rave l ing by sea or by air. Travelers may take out A lge r ian d inar bankno tes up to DA 50 a person. Non re s ident trave lers may also re-export any fore ign cu r r en cy declared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Ce r ta in exports, in c lud ing used equipment and mach ine ry, livestock, firearms, ammun i t ion, explo- sives, and certain rad io equipment, are prohibited regardless of des t ina t ion. All other exports may, in p r inc ip le, be effec ted f ree ly, w i thout an export license, w i th the exception of exports to countries w i th which Algeria has b i la teral paymen ts agreements. Some com- modities may be exported, sub ject to ind iv idual prior 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transac- tions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately a f ter collection; the due date of the export contract must be not later than 60 days following shipment, except when prior authorization f rom the Central Bank is obtained. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a contractual price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company ho ld ing m ineral rights, however, there are d ifferent repatriation requirements. Exporters in the private sector may retain in special accounts 2 per cent (1 per cent for consignment sales) of the export proceeds of all commodities other than hydrocarbons, unless exports are made on a compensation basis (echanges compenses). These accounts are of two k inds —EDAC (Exportateurs-dinars convertibles) and EDAB (Exportateurs-dinars bilateraux). Balances in these accounts are not transferable but may be used by the holder h imse lf for business travel, cer ta in services of foreign technicians, and imports of spare parts; balances in excess of DA 100,000 in either type of account are inconvertible. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sur- rendered. Savings repatriated in the fo rm of convertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coin (except gold co in ), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, inc lud ing those of A lger ian n a t ion a l i ty, must declare such holdings when they enter A lger ia. Resident trav- elers may reimport Algerian d inar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not per- mitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repa t r ia te and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds t h e r e o f) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital t ran s fe rs to any des- t ina t ion are subject to ind iv idual license; residents are not no rma l ly permitted to acquire capital assets outside A lger ia. All borrowing abroad or f rom nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Inves tment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the indus tr ial and tourist sectors, for a re t ran s fer guarantee in respect of the sale or l iqu ida t ion proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annua l ly of the for- eign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be gran ted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tar iff protection. Remittances of profits and re transfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of Janua ry 16, 1970, unworked gold for indus- tr ial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Na t iona le pour la Distribution et la Transforma t ion de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AG ENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, w i th in the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Locally produced gold must be sold to AGENOR. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1978 January 1. Impor ts made without payment (sans paiement) were exempted f rom all exchange and trade control fo rma l i t ies when valued at not more than DA 5,000 instead of DA 1,000 as previously. February 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria was terminated. February 11. Law No. 78-02 gave the state complete monopoly over foreign trade. Under the new law all impor ts not prohibited outright would, a f ter a transi- t ion al period, f a ll w i th in the AGI regime. September 23. The b i la teral payments agreement w i th Nor th Korea was term ina ted. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System Imports and Import Payments The currency of Argen t ina is the A rgen t ine Peso. The authorities have announced in advance a schedule of daily exchange rates for the period December 21, 1978-December 31, 1979.1 On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar, the in ter- ven t ion currency, were $a 1,000 and $a 1,007, respec- tively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies 2 are also off ic ia l ly quoted w i th daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on marke ts abroad. Exchange transac t ions are subject to a tax of 0.6 per cent on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange opera- tions are permitted in the private sector with ma tur i t ies of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers. Argen t ina fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom May 14, 1968. Administration of Control A ll exchange t ran sac t ions mu st be carr ied out th rough en t i t ies au thor ized expressly for th is purpose. These au thor ized en t i t ies i n c l u de banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange off ices; each of these types of in s t i tu t ion may be sub ject to separate regu la t ion. Prescription of Currency V i r t u a l ly a ll paymen ts be tween A rg en t ina and Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in i c an Repub l ic, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela a re made th rough accoun ts m a i n t a i n ed by the Cen tral B ank of A rgen t ina and the cen tral banks concerned, under reciprocal cred it agreemen ts w i th in the f rame- work of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the La t in Ame r ican Free Trade Association (LAFTA ). Trans- actions w i th other coun tr ies must be settled in converti- ble currencies. Nonresident Accounts Au tho r ized banks may open accoun ts in pesos and in fore ign exchange in the name of any non re s iden t, pro- vided that the accoun ts are fed w i th rem i t tances of convertible currenc ies only. Ba lances on non r e s id ent accounts may be used f ree ly for any purpose, in Argen- t ina or abroad. T rans fe rs be tween accoun ts may be e f fec ted f ree ly, except in p aym ent for exports. 1 From May 12, 1978 to December 20, 1978 ex ch ange ra tes were d e t e rm i n ed l a rg e ly on the basis of d em a nd and s u p p ly c o n d i t i o ns in the ex ch ange m a r k e t s. The a u t h o r i t i es i n t e r v e n e d, how ev e r, w h en neces- sary to m a i n t a in o r d e r ly c o n d i t i o ns in t he e x c h a n ge m a r k e t. 2 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, B e lg i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an do l l a r s, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, F inn i sh m a r k k a a, F r e n ch f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Ne the r- lands gu i ld e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, P o r t u g u e se escudos, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss f r a n c s. Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing. Payments may be made in any convertible currency. However, certain import suspensions are in effect .3 All imports by the private or public sector require a sworn declaration of need (declaration jurada de necesidad) submitted by the importer to the National Import Board. Registration of the declaration is auto- matic. Furthermore, public sector imports require approval by the Central Bank with regard to debt. Imports of some vehicles and engines are prohibited. Imports of used goods are suspended, except for used capital goods which might be imported if authoriza- tion were obtained f rom the Secretariat of State for Indus t r ial Development. Import taxes inc lude the fo l low ing: a consular fee of 3 per cent payable norma l ly in foreign currency on most import invoices; a statistical tax of 3 per cent app l icab le to all imports; a stamp du ty of 0.6 per cent; taxes r ang ing f rom 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper produc ts, certain types of t imber and timber p roduc t s, and forest products; selective in ternal taxes rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 22 per cent; and a tax of 12 per cent on ma r i t ime f re igh t, unless the imports invo lved are transported in Argentine vessels. Impor ts may be f u l ly paid for in cash. For capital goods, advance payment of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. v a l ue is pe rm i t ted. The l iab i l i t ies incurred may be pa r t ia l ly or entirely discharged prior to the originally agreed dead l ines, regardless of the ins t rument used. I tems not considered as cap i tal goods may have up to 180 days' f inanc ing, but this l im i ta t ion does not apply in the case of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles may be made free ly. Sales of fo re ign exchange w i thout a wr i t ten declaration of purpose are perm i t ted up to US$20,000. There are no l im i ts with respect to purchases of fo re ign currency by Argen t ine residents for travel pur- poses. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic b ankno t es and coin except gold coin. Exports and Export Proceeds A n um b er of exports are prohibited or restricted. M i n im um export prices ( r e f e r en ce pr ices) are estab- lished for m a ny ag r i cu l tu r al and livestock exports as a basis for the p aym ent of du t ies and the su r render of expo rt proceeds. The f u ll f .o .b. proceeds f rom all exports mu st be repa tr ia ted and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the re fe rence price or, if :! At the end of 1978 these p r o h i b i t i o ns were applied only to ce r ta in typ es of veh ic les and mo tors. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign investors, provided that these pesos are trans- ferable abroad; capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign currency; intangible assets (bienes ARGENTINA there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. The proceeds f rom traditional exports must be surrendered within 180 days of ship- ment. No such limit exists for the proceeds from promoted exports (listed in Central Bank Circular R.C. 704). There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, periodicals, and sheet music. Cer- tain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates (reintegro and reembolso). Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales va lue or on reference prices. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise, or within the following 31 days when there is a bank guarantee of payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on maritime fre ight costs. Certain other taxes are also levied on specific exports. These include a 2 per cent tax on exports of agricultural and livestock products, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Technology, and a tax of 1 per cent or 2.5 per cent, depend ing on the product, levied on grain exports and earmarked for the Na t ional Grain Board. Many exports, particularly non trad i t ional exports, are eligible for export incentives of var ious kinds. The Cen tral Bank has established a system of special f inanc- ing, to be gran ted to Argen t ine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services.4 Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in free ly any amount in domestic or fore ign bankno tes and coin, as well as gold coin. Capital Proceeds f rom fore ign loans must be sold in the exchange marke t. There are in general no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonres iden ts, although residents may not borrow abroad for less than one year. Ou tward capital t rans fe rs are restricted. For- eign borrowing by the pub l ic sector is regu la ted by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. The Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 21382 of August 13, 1976) and its imp lemen t ing decree (Decree No. 283 of February 4, 1977) govern all aspects of inves tmen ts of fore ign capital. Investments may be made in free ly convertible fo re ign currency; new or used capital goods and their spare pa r ts and accessories; profits and capital in Argen t ine pesos belonging to 4 The A r g e n t i ne E x p o rt C red it I n s u r a n ce Company p rov ides cred it in su r an ce aga inst commerc ial and o r d i n a ry risks, and also coverage for e x t r a o r d i n a ry r isks, for expor ts of cap i tal goods, consumer du r- ables, and c e r t a in o ther consumer goods. 40 suspended only by the Na t ional Executive. In that event, fore ign investors are en t i t led to receive, for the rem i t tance of p ro f i ts abroad, the equ iva lent of the sum to be t rans fe r red in external pub l ic debt securities denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency, at the ra te of interest ru l ing in the in te rna t ional ma rke t, aga inst provision of the equ iva lent in A rgen t ine pesos. Profits in money or in k ind on registered fo re ign capi- tal are subject to a special tax when they exceed 12 per cent of registered cap i ta l. This tax is 15 per cent on rem i t ted prof i ts of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of registered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of regis- tered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more th an 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domes t ic cred it to "domestic firms w i th fo re ign capital" is sub ject to special prov is ions, as set fo r th in Law No. 21382 (A r t i c le 17) and Decree No. 283 /77 (A r t ic le 7 1 ). Gold Res iden ts may hold gold coin and gold in any o ther fo rm in A r g e n t i na or ab road. They may buy or sell gold coin and may sell "good de l ive ry" gold bars to en t i t ies and houses au tho r ized to deal in fo r e ign exchange .r> Impo r ts of gold by indu s t r i al users are sub ject to a s ta t i s t ical du ty of 0.6 per cen t, and those by o ther users are sub ject in add i t ion to sales tax. Expor ts of gold may be effec ted by en t i t ies and houses au thor ized to engage in exchange t ransac t ions; they requ i re the pr ior approval of the Cen t ral B ank and the proceeds mu st be received in conve r t ib le currenc ies. Changes during 1978 January 6. The ce i l ing on sales of fo re ign exchange pe rm i t ted f ree ly w i t h o ut regard to pu rpose, previously US$1,000, was increased to US$5,000 (C en t r al Bank C i rcu lar R.C. 7 1 6 ). Subsequen t ly, it was f u r t h er increased to US$10,000 on J u ne 30 (Cen t ral Bank C i rcu lar R.C. 761) and to US$20,000 on September 4 (Cen t ral Bank C ircu lar R.C. 778 ). January 27. Su r render r equ i r em en ts for export pro- ceeds de r ived f r om t rad i t ional expor ts were mod if ied. The acceptable means of payment were expanded to inc lude d ra f t s, and the t ime period for su r r end er was extended to 30 days a f ter the due date of the corre- spond ing documen t. Previously, the time period had been l im i t ed to 20 days a f ter sh ipment (Cen t ral Bank C ircu lar R.C. 720 ). January 27. Private sector impor ters of capital goods were freed f rom the requ irement to consult in advance with the Central Bank (Central Bank C ircu lar R.C. 7 2 1 ). January 31. Import du t ies for mach ine ry and equip- ment not produced locally were reduced f rom 65 per cent to 40 per cent, and to 10 per cent by Ju ly 1 (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 1 9 1 / 7 8 ). •r> A u t h o r i z ed en t i t i es and houses may in t u rn sell such gold coins to res ident ind iv idua l s. ARGENTINA March 3. It was announced that fore ign transport companies or the ir agents m ight f ree ly t rans fer abroad the in t e rn a t ion al fa res they collected (Central Bank C i rcu lar R.C. 7 2 6 ). March 8. It was announced that export finance opera- tions f r om ex ternal sources would be authorized for ma tu r i t ies not exceeding 180 days, or the date of su r r end er of the relative export proceeds (Central Bank C ircu lar R.C. 7 2 7 ). April 7. The regu la t ions a f fec t ing financing require- ments for cap i tal goods were s imp l if ied. M in imum financing terms were set within a range of one year for impor ts of US$500,000 or less to five years for impo r ts of US$5 m i l l ion. Impo r ts of a higher value would requ ire central bank approval (Cen tral Bank C ircu lar R.C. 732 ). Subsequen t ly, on J u ne 30, the regu la t ions spec i fy ing m i n im um f inanc ing terms were abo l ished, p e rm i t t i ng advance paymen ts of up to 20 per cent of the v a lue of the t ransac t ion w i thout approval f r om the Cen tral Bank (Central Bank C ircu lar R.C. 760). April 12. It was announced that financing terms for impo r ts other than cap i tal goods would be subject to a m a x im um l im it of 180 days. Impor ts financed by sup- pliers' credits would not be sub ject to a t ime limit (Cen t ral B ank C ircu lar R.C. 7 3 3 ). April 19. Impo rt du t i es on more than 350 indus t r ial impo r ts not available domes t ica l ly were reduced f rom between 40 and 70 per cent to between 20 and 30 per cent, e f fec t ive J u ne 20. A f t er September 30 these duties wou ld be reduced to a un i fo rm 10 per cent (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 4 8 9 / 7 8 ). May 12. Ex ternal financial operations by the private sector were made subject to a deposit requirement. A ra te of 20 per cent of the local currency counterpart wou ld be app l ied to financial loans and 10 per cent to t rade t ransac t ions (Cen tral Bank Circular R.C. 741 ). On September 22 the ra te for financial loans was reduced to 15 per cent (Cen tral Bank Circular R.C. 786 ). May 12. The Central Bank abandoned the system of f r equ ent and small ad ju s tmen ts of the exchange rate. It was announced that the rate would now be determined by supp ly and demand in the exchange markets. The Cen tral Bank, however, reserved the right to intervene in order to ma in ta in order ly conditions in the ma rket (Cen tral Bank Telephonic Communication No. 4080). May 18. By Central Bank Circular R.C. 744, external financial operations with off ic ial or multilateral agencies, or those related to the import of capital goods, were exempted f rom the advance deposit requirement (see entries for April 7 and May 12, above). June 2. The export r e fund system was modified to allow l iqu ida t ion of the re funds at the exchange rate in force on the da te payment was made, rather than at the ra te applicable on the da te of shipment (National Customs Adm in is t ra t ion Resolution No. 2051 /78 ). June 14. For import insurance contracted in foreign currency with local companies the requirement that pay- 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA ment to the insured in case of loss be converted at the rate of exchange applied to the payment for the import was rescinded. July 1. A reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Banks of Argen t ina and the Dominican Republic within the framework of LAFTA entered into operation. The agreement included a credit limit of US$1 million, plus an additional marg in of 10 per cent. July 6. It was announced that advance payments for exports could be received only on account of exports to be shipped no later than 180 days f rom the date of the exchange transaction (Central Bank Circular R.C. 765). These paymen ts would be subject to the advance deposit requ irement (see en t ry for May 12, above ). (Central Bank Circular R.C. 766.) July 6. The permitted ma tu r i ty on documen ts cover- ing payment for t rad i t ional exports was extended f rom 30 days to 60 days (Central Bank Circular R.C. 7 6 7 ). July 6. Authorized institutions were empowered to carry out forward exchange operations with the private sector for maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers, provided that the opera- tions were based on bona fide export and import trans- actions (Central Bank Circular R.C. 768 ). August 11. Import duties on 415 items not produced locally were reduced by between 10 and 15 per cent to a rate of about 50 per cent (M in is t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 1147/78 and 1148 /78 ). September 1. The time limit for the surrender of the proceeds of promoted exports was abolished (see entry for Janua ry 27, above). For other exports, the limit was set at 180 days af ter the date of shipment (Central Bank Circular R.C. 779). September 4. Central Bank Circular R.C. 778 announced that payments on account of licensing fees, royalties, technical services, remittances of profits, and repatriation of investment would no longer require prior approval. December 21. Central Bank Circular R.C. 807 intro- duced a new system for de term in ing the exchange rate. The peso would be devalued daily against the U.S. dollar un t il the cumu la t ive ad jus tment had reached 43.38 per cent by August 31, 1979. The devaluation for the first eight months of 1979 alone would amount to 41.8 per cent. (On April 6, 1979 the schedule of daily exchange rates was extended to the rema in ing months of 1979, raising to 61.5 per cent the expected devaluation against the U.S. dollar for 1979 as a who le .) December 21. All m in imum deposit requirements on private financial fore ign borrowing were abolished. The m in imum ma tur i ty for foreign loans to residents in Argentina was reduced f rom two years to one year (Central Bank Resolution R.C. 808). Deposit require- ments on trade-related credit operations were abolished (Central Bank Resolution R.C. 809). 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Aus tra l ia is the Au s t ra l ian Dollar.1 The exchange ra te of the Au s t ra l ian do l lar is determined by reference to a trade-weighted index of currencies. The level of the exchange rate in re la t ion to the trade- weighted index is kept under review and is changed when assessment of all relevant economic factors indi- cates a need for movement of the rate. A mid-rate for the Aus t ra l ian do l lar in terms of the U.S. dollar ( the in te rven t ion cu r rency) is announced each day by the Reserve Bank of Au s t ra l ia. The au thor i t ies of Aus tra l ia do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transac- tions. Official limits are set at or w i th in which banks are to effect spot transac t ions w i th the public in U.S. dollars. On December 29, 1978 the au tho r i t ies set a m idd le rate for the U.S. do l lar of $A 1 = US$1.1505 and the off ic ial l im i ts were US$1 .1529 and US$1.1481 for the buy ing and s e l l ing rates, respec t ive ly. Exchange ra tes for other cu r renc ies a re not o f f i c i a l ly posted, and b anks a re f ree to de te rm ine the ir own spot rates for all other currencies. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Forward exchange cover may be a r r a n g ed th rough the au thor ized banks by residents for pe r iods app rop r ia te to the n a t u re of the t ran sac t ion in respect of most exchange r i sks a r i s ing out of t rade t ransac t ions. Fo rwa rd exchange cover for t ran sac t ions in cer ta in inv is ib les of a non- cap i tal n a t u re may also be a r ranged. The Reserve Bank provides fo rwa rd cover to the t r a d i ng banks in U.S. do l la rs. B anks act as p r inc ipa ls in a ll fo r e ign cu r rency t r a n s a c t i o n s, bo th spot and fo rw a rd, and are f ree to d e t e rm ine th e ir own fo rw a rd rates for a ll currencies; they are requ i red to res tr ict the ir uncovered pos i t ions and may not ca r ry excessive balances ab road. Au s t r a l ia f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f r om J u ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange con trol po l icy is de te rm ined by the Gove rn- m e nt w i th the advice of the D e p a r tm e nt of the Treasury and of the Reserve B a n k. The Rese rve Bank adm in is te rs the exchange con trol on b eh a lf of the A u s t r a l i an Treas- u r er and de lega tes cons ide rab le d i s c r e t i o n a ry powers to the t r a d i ng b anks a u t h o r i z ed to h a n d le f o r e i gn exchange t r a n s a c t i o n s. Impo rt and export con t ro ls a re a dm i n i s- tered by the D e p a r tm e nt of Bus iness and Con sumer A f f a i r s. O ther d e p a r tm e n ts a re re spon s ib le for some po l icy aspects of con t ro ls on im p o r ts and expor ts. Prescription of Currency Whe re im p o r ts a re invo iced in A u s t r a l i an do l la rs, p a ym e n ts m ay be made in A u s t r a l i an c u r r e n cy th rough the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Aus- tralia, or in any fore ign cu r rency ;2 if imports are invoiced in fore ign currency, payment must be made in fore ign cu r rency. Proceeds f rom exports may be received in Aus t ra l ian currency f rom an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Aus tra l ia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approva l, which is gran ted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a t rans fer to the coun try of residence of the account holder were invo lved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents, provided that for amoun ts of $A 250,000 or more any necessary Reserve Bank approval has been issued for the under ly ing trans- ac t ion. The ba lance on an account held by any non- res ident may be w i t h d r awn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are gen- e ra l ly not pe rm i t ted to borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be impor ted w i thout import licenses, and no res t r ic t ions are imposed on paymen ts for imports. The la t ter no rma l ly must be made not earlier than the da te of sh ipment or one mon th be fo re the arrival of the goods in Aus t ra l ia, and not la ter than six mon ths a f ter the a r r ival of the goods in Au s t r a l i a; consent to longer periods is given on ly where it is established that longer per iods are no rmal commerc ial practice. Import restric- t ions are imposed for a numb er of reasons, though not for exchange con trol purposes. Import restrictions are m a i n t a i n ed on ce r ta in goods, ma in ly for reasons of i n d u s t ry assistance, hea l th, commun i ty protection, or secu r i ty, or to sus ta in qu a l i ty s tanda rds. In accordance w i th the re levant Reso lu t ions of the UN Security Coun- c i l, m and a to ry sanc t ions are applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles A ll p aym en ts for inv is ib les are subject to exchange con t ro l, bu t, w i th the exception of rem i t tances to Rhodes ia, th ey are not res t r ic ted. The con trol operates p r im a r i ly to p revent u n a u t h o r i z ed cap i tal t ran s fe r s; in a d d i t i o n, r em i t t an c es to the New Hebrides are subject to a sc reen ing p rocedu re to en su re th at no tax m in im iza t ion t r an s a c t ions a re invo lved. App l i c a t ions for ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs in connec t ion w i th c u r r e nt inv i s ib les a re nor- m a l ly d e a lt w i th imm ed i a t e ly by b a n k s; fo rms do not g e n e r a l ly have to be f i l led out for amoun ts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these sma l ler t r a n s f e rs to the Reserve Bank. There is no l im it on t r a v el f u n d s. B a n ks may app rove for each person up to 1 The A u s t r a l i an d o l l ar also c i r c u l a t es in a n um b er of o ther coun- t r i e s, i n c l u d i ng G i l b e rt I s l and s, N a u r u, N ew H eb r id e s, a nd T u v a l u. - Fore ign c u r r e n c i es a re d e f in ed as a ll cu r r en c i es o th er t h an the A u s t r a l i an do l la r. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $A 1,500 for each additional month up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amounts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for unauthorized capital transfers. Similarly, no specific limits are placed on remittances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six months a f ter the date when it is contractually due; consent to longer deferment is given only where it is established that longer periods are nor- mal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not no rma l ly provided to enable residents to take out personal l i fe insu rance with foreign insurers. Travelers may take out, w i thout special au thor iza t ion, up to $A 250 in Aus tra l ian currency notes plus $A 5 in Aus- t ra l ian coin. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in fore ign banknotes w i th in six mon ths of en try, provided that they brought the notes in to Aus tra l ia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are no longer requ ired. The obligation to account for export proceeds now rests directly on the exporter. Proceeds of exports of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, must be received in Aus t ra l ia in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. The approved period is def ined as being as soon as practicable a f ter the date on which payment is made to the exporter, and not later than six months after exporta- tion nor earlier than one month before exportation. Longer periods are allowed only where the payment arrangements are in accordance w i th normal commercial practice. Under the Customs (Proh ib i ted Exports) Regu- lations, the export of specified goods may be prohibited absolutely or may be perm i t ted subject to prescribed conditions. Export control over raw or semiprocessed m inera ls is regarded as a reserve power, which is invoked when necessary to ensure that the export prices commer- cially negotiated by exporters are related to world mar- ket levels and that the export sales do not conflict w i th n a t ion al in teres ts. Provision exists for con t ro ls to ensure that obligations und er in te rna t ional commod i ty agree- men ts are observed, to comp lement order ly m a rk e t ing a r rangemen ts under Au s t r a l i an leg is la t ion, and to pro- vide that domestic needs for certain agricultural inputs are sa t isf ied ahead of export d em and s. There are pro- visions for government control over the export of defense m a t e r i a l. Controls also exist over expor ts of Au s t ra l ian- registered ships to ensure th at at all t imes adequa te shipping is ava i lab le for t rade and commerce among the states and te r r i to r ies of Aus tra l ia. In accordance w i th 44 UN Resolutions almost all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not perm i t ted other than in association with direct invest- ments. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct inves tment involving the export of a signifi- cant measure of Aus t ra l ian managerial or technical skills are read i ly approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of inves tment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Aus t ra l ian investments abroad. Approval is norma l ly granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. Foreign securities owned by Aus tra l ian resi- dents need not be surrendered; approval is given to res iden ts to reinvest the sales proceeds f rom foreign securities for the ir own account in other foreign securi- ties, but they are not norma l ly perm i t ted to trade among themselves. The export of securities and certain trans- ac t ions in fo re ign securities are subject to approval. App l ica t ions by resident ind iv idua ls for portfolio-type inves tment abroad in amoun ts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-mon th period no rm a l ly are read i ly approved; institu- t ional investors and public compan ies can expect to receive pe rm iss ion to make inves tmen ts abroad of up to $A 1 m i l l i on in any 12-month period. Applications for i n v e s tm e n ts in larger amoun ts may be approved in special circumstances. Eligible investments include stocks and shares and inve s tmen ts in real estate; they do not inc lude inve s tmen ts in loans or other fixed- in terest securities. When exchange control approval is be ing sought, inves tment in and other transactions of a cap i tal na tu re w i th coun tr ies designated as tax havens3 requ i re a tax clearance certificate f rom the Commis- sioner of Taxation. Approval is required for residents to borrow Aus- t r a l i an or foreign currency f rom any nonresident, or to i n c ur a l i ab i l i ty to a nonres iden t. In addition, residents are requ i red to ob ta in approval to draw, issue, or nego- t i a te any b i ll of exchange or promissory note, to ente*r in to con trac ts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that ac tual or contingent rights to paymen ts, or any other valuable consideration, or services are created in f avor of any nonresident, or to a l lot or t r a n s f er securities to, or register securities in the n ame of, any non re s iden t. Gua ran tees in Aus tra l ian or 3 These are l is ted as Bahamas, Be rmuda, British Channel Islands, B r i t i sh V i r g in Islands, Cayman Islands, G ib r a l t a r, G renada, Hong K o n g, Isle of Man, L ib e r i a, L iech ten s te in, Luxembou rg, N a u r u, Nether- l a n ds An t i l l e s, New Hebrides, P a n am a, Solomon Islands, Switzerland, and Tonga. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fore ign currency by or on behalf of Aus tra l ian residents are authorized where the unde r ly ing transac t ions con- fo rm w i th exchange control policy. There are no special controls on borrowings f rom overseas lenders. The var i- able deposit wh ich last operated f r om J a n u a ry 17, 1977 was suspended on Ju ly 7, 1977, and the embargo on overseas borrow ings for periods of less th an six mon ths was suspended as f rom June 9, 1978. Also suspended f r om that date were the embargo on non res ident deposits w i th a m a t u r i ty of less th an six mon ths w i th banks and o ther f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ion s; the res tr ic t ions wh ich pro- h i b i t ed non res iden ts f rom inves t ing in f ixed - in te rest secur i t ies w i th ma tu r i t ies of less than six mon ths; and su rv e i l l an ce over movemen ts in in t e r comp any indeb ted- ness. Au s t r a l i an banks are requ i red to cite specific Reserve Bank approval for a ll i nw a rd cap i tal rem i t tances of $A 250,000 or more. Inwa rd e q u i ty inv e s tm ent requ ires exchange con trol app rova l. In a d d i t i o n, the Gove rnment has a policy on fo re ign inve s tment wh ich app l ies to ce r ta in categories of fo re ign inv e s tm en t, whe ther or not exchange control app rov a ls a re requ i red to t r a n s f er f u n ds in to Aus t ra l ia to finance such inv e s tm en t s. This po l icy is ba s ica l ly one of en cou r ag em ent because of the va r ious economic bene- fits that the foreign inves tment is expected to con fer on the Australian economy. Under the policy, ind iv idual fore ign inves tment proposals are exam ined to ensure that they harmon ize with Australia's interests. The examina- tion procedures recognize the need to avoid unnecessary in te r fe rence with normal commercial processes. The Government is advised on ind iv idu al proposals and on fo re ign investment ma t te rs generally by a Foreign Invest- ment Review Board. The exam inab le categories of invest- ment are ( 1) proposals fa l l ing w i th in the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, in c lud ing any acqu is i t ion or issue of shares which would result in or increase a subs tan t ial fo r e ign interest in an Aus t ra l ian company, even where the re is no change of control; (2) proposals invo lv ing the establishment of new nonbank financial institutions and in su r an ce companies and proposals for inves tment in other sectors that are subject to special restrictions, n am e ly, bank ing, the commun ica t ions med ia, civil avia- t ion, and u r a n i um and activities re la t ing to u r a n i um; ( 3) proposals to establish other new businesses ( inc lud- ing d ivers if ica t ion into activities not previously under- taken directly in A u s t r a l i a ), or to und e r t ake m in ing or n a tu r al resources projects where the amount of invest- ment is $A 5 m i l l ion or more; and (4) acqu is i t ions by foreign interests of Aus tra l ian real estate valued at $A 250,000 or more. The basic criteria for exam ina t ion of proposals inc lude the net economic benefits and employment opportunities offered by the proposal, the level of Aus t ra l ian equity participation and management involved, whether the proposal would introduce new technology or manage r ial or work force skills, and the likely effect of the proposal on the Government's general economic and social poli- AUSTRALIA cies. There are specific guidelines concerning Aus tra l ian equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion in proposals for investment in the n a tu r al resources sector. In the m ine ra l, agricultural, pas tora l, fishing, and fo res t ry sectors the policy requires, as a general ru le, 50 per cent Au s t ra l ian equ i ty with at least 50 per cent of the voting strength on the Board or con t ro l l ing body to be held by Au s t ra l ian interests. Pro- posals that do not meet the 50 per cent gu ide l ine are allowed to proceed if Au s t ra l ian equ i ty capital is not av a i l ab le on reasonab le terms or if Aus t ra l ian participa- t ion is not c omm e r c i a l ly prac t icab le. A proposed project for the m i n i ng and p roduc t ion of u r a n i um will only be a l lowed to proceed prov ided it has a m i n im um 75 per cent A u s t r a l i an equ i ty and is Au s t ra l ian controlled. A f r am ew o rk has been established for the "naturalization" of fo re ign -owned compan ies th at have s ign if icant Aus- t r a l i an sha reho ld ings. Und er th is f r am ew o rk a company w i th a m i n i m um 25 per cent Au s t r a l i an equ i ty wh ich is pub l ic ly comm i t ted to increase th is propor t ion to 51 per cent and has a board w i th a m a jo r i ty of Au s t ra l ian citi- zens is c lass i f ied as a n a t u r a l i z i ng company and is given p r ior cred it for ach iev ing 51 per cent Au s t ra l ian owner- sh ip. Acco rd ing ly, it may proceed w i th new projects in the n a t u r al resources sector in its own right, in par tner- sh ip w i th an A u s t r a l i an company, a n a t u r a l i z ed com- pany, or a n a t u r a l i z i ng company, w i thout f irst seeking app roval f r om the Gove rnmen t. The na tu ra l iza t ion a r r ang em en ts do not apply to fore ign par t ic ipa t ion in u r a n i um pro jec ts nor do they a f f e ct a company's position u n d er the prov is ions of the Foreign Takeovers Act. There are no special res tr ic t ions on domestic bank credit to compan ies res ident in Au s t ra l ia which are overseas owned or overseas controlled. Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buy ing, or se l l ing gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Changes during 1978 January 12. Import duties were raised on rigid and soft-sided luggage and on f o r k l i ft trucks. The increases were to apply for an 18-month period pend ing considera- t ion of the Indus t ry Assistance Commission's reports on the long- term assistance needs of the respective indu s t r ie s. February 23. The Gove rnment announced that in accordance w i th its policy of restricting imports to 20 per cent of the expected marke t, import licenses for passenger motor vehicles would be restricted to 94,400 vehicles in 1978. February 28. It was announced that ta r i ff quotas would be allocated for imports of brandy for a fu r ther s ix -mon th period. Quotas would rema in unchanged at 40 per cent of actual imports cleared for home con- sump t ion du r ing 1975-76. Australia invoked the safe- gua rd provisions of GATT Article XIX to jus t i fy this 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA measure. On August 28, 1978 these arrangemen ts were extended for a fu r ther six-month period. March 3. It was announced that ta r i ff quotas would continue on tire-cord fabrics un t il mid-1980. The cur- rent basis of ta r i ff quota allocation would continue until February 28, 1979. March 9. The temporary quan t i ta t ive restrictions on the impor ta t ion of cer ta in types of files and rasps was extended to December 31, 1978. It was also decided to inc lude round b lunt chain saw files in the scope of the import restrictions. Australia invoked the safeguard provisions of GATT Article XIX to j u s t i fy this measure. March 16. The Government announced new long- term rates of du ty on imports of commercial motor vehicles, parts, and accessories. The production in Aus tra l ia of some components was to be provided w i th boun ty assistance. March 21. Aus tra l ia no t if ied the GATT of a number of changes in the Aus t ra l ian System of Tariff Prefer- ences for Developing Countries arising f rom imp lemen- tation of the Industries Assistance Commission's "First Report for the Multilateral Trade Negotiations —Gen- eral Rates of Duty." April 12. The controls on imports of secondhand fishing vessels were relaxed to allow the temporary import before March 31, 1980 of up to 20 vessels, each vessel for a period of up to five years. April 19. The Sydney gold fu tu res market began its operations. April 21. A global quota was introduced on imports of double-edged safe ty razor blades for a two-year period unless local production were to be discontinued within this period. Australia invoked the safeguard provisions of GATT Article XIX to j u s t i fy this measure. April 23. It was determined, under the "trigger" mechanism for imports of wool worsted and wool blend yarns introduced in November 1977, that actual imports in the 12-month periods ended December 31, 1977, Janua ry 31, 1978, and February 28, 1978 had exceeded the predetermined trigger levels. Accordingly, a tem- porary additional du ty of $A 2.50 a kilogram became applicable from March 1, 1978 on imports of wool worsted and wool blend yarns in excess of the annual rate that was considered nondisruptive. Imports of amounts up to the nondisruptive level continued to be admitted at pre-existing rates of du ty. Australia invoked the safeguard provisions of GATT Article XIX to ju s t i fy this measure. June 7. It was announced that tar iff quotas would be maintained on industrial vises at least for six months. If the Industries Assistance Commission's final report were not acted upon by December 31, 1978, the quotas were to extend to June 30, 1979. The tariff quota on handy- man vises was abolished. June 8. Certain modifications were made to the Gov- ernment's foreign investment policy: (1) the threshold for examination of proposals for foreign investment in 46 new projects (other than in the areas where restrictions apply to fo re ign inves tmen t) was increased f rom $A 1 million to $A 5 million; (2) the threshold below which the Government would not intervene, except in special circumstances, in proposals coming under the Foreign Takeovers Act was raised from $A 1 million to $A 2 mil- lion; and (3) proposals for individual real estate acquisi- tions of less than $A 250,000 were exempted from foreign investment approval. Provisions (the "naturali- zation" provisions) establishing a framework and an incen t ive for p redom inan t ly foreign-owned companies to increase the level of Australian participation in their opera t ions were also introduced. June 8. Modifications of exchange controls over cap i tal inflow were announced. These included the suspension of ( 1) the embargo on overseas borrowings for periods of less than six months; (2) the embargo on non res ident deposits with a ma tu r i ty of less than six mon ths with banks and other financial institutions; (3) the restrictions on inves tmen ts by nonresidents in fixed-interest securities w i th maturities of less than six months; and (4) surveillance over intercompany indebtedness. June 28. The 65 per cent import duty on orange juice was extended for a fu r ther three-month period. Subse- quen t ly, the duty was also applied to cover substitutes for orange ju ice and was fu r th er extended to Febru- ary 28, 1979. June 30. Tariff quotas on imports of thick plywood were extended un t il a decision on the final report by the Indus tr ies Assistance Commission on Timber and Tim- ber Products was made. July 1. Footwear exceeding a value for duty of $A 23.50 a pair was exempted f rom import licensing. From Janua ry 1, 1979 the exemption would apply to foo twear exceeding a va lue for duty of $A 24. July 6. Additional import quota allocations were announced for textile and apparel items for the period September 1, 1978-February 28, 1979. July 6. Rates of import du ty were established on a declining scale ( f rom 45 per cent initially to 30 per cent from the seventh year on) for refrigerators, vertical freezers, chest freezers, and washing machines. In addi- tion, the quantitative restriction on chest freezers was retained for an add i t ional year. Import duties (on a declining scale over two years) were announced for clothes dryers and room air conditioners. July 7. A global quota was introduced for a one-year period from Ju ly 1, 1978 on imports of galvanized steel sheet and hot-rolled or cold-rolled uncoated steel sheet. Australia invoked the safeguard provisions of GATT Article XIX to ju s t i fy this measure. July 30. The Government announced that the import quota on passenger motor vehicles would be reduced f rom 94,000 units in calendar 1978 to 88,000 units in accordance with the policy of restricting imports to 20 per cent of the expected size of the market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 4. An t idump ing duties were applied to imports of polypropylene resins from Belgium, the Republic of Ch ina, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. August 8. Tariff quotas were announced on certain insulators. These insulators would be subject to a total d u ty of 75 per cent ad valorem, general and preferential. August 15. Under the budget proposals a special add i t ion al du ty of 12.5 per cent was imposed on imports of ce r ta in finished goods subject to ta r i ff quota or import licensing restrictions. Imports f rom New Zea land were exempt f rom the duty. September 1. A new procedure, invo lv ing calculation of impo rt quotas on a moving base enabling an importer's more recent import history to be reflected in his ac tual quota entitlement, went in to effect for imports of tex t i les and clothing du r ing the quo ta period Septem- ber 1, 1978-February 28, 1979. A Textiles, Clothing, and Footwear Review Comm i t tee was set up and was au tho r ized to alter impo rt quota levels up or down every six mon ths by up to 10 per cent of a fixed a n n u al quota level specified by the Gove rnmen t. September 29. Tariff quotas were in troduced on a range of hosiery and kn i t ted unde rwear and sleepwear. October 4. Increased ta r i ff duties were announced on impor ts of cer ta in carpets and carpet tiles. The new rate of du ty would be 30 per cent ad va lorem. October 6. A n t i d um p i ng du t ies were imposed on impo r ts of ph tha l ic anhyd r ide f r om the Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Italy, the Philippines, and the United Kingdom. October 11. It was announ c ed that the People's Repub l ic of China wou ld be inc luded among countries b en e f i t ing f rom Aus t ra l ia 's Generalized System of Preferences. October 12. Tar iff duties on gearboxes, gears, and sha ft couplings were tempo ra r i ly increased to 35 per cent ad va lorem. October 17. Details of the 1979 impo rt quo tas for passenger motor vehicles were announced; the global quota was set prov is iona l ly at 90,000 un i ts on the AUSTRALIA assumption of a minimum market of 450,000 units. The quo ta of 90,000 units was subsequently confirmed. October 17. The Government announced new long- term rates of du ty on imports of printed matter. Payments under the book boun ty were to be phased downward after December 31, 1979. October 18. The bounty on certain bed linen was extended to cover also certain woven and printed bed sheeting. October 18. In view of the increased cost of some impo r ted vehicle components, passenger motor vehicle m a n u f a c t u r e rs were permitted to adjust their calculation of local content on the basis of a 12-month lag in the application of exchange rates. All manu fac tu re rs were required to be at 85 per cent local content by January 1, 1980, when the ad jus tmen ts would be phased out. November 15. Aus t ra l ia notified the GATT that since March 1978 it had excluded the following bene- ficiaries f rom the Generalized System of Preferences in respect of pa r t icu lar products, because the imports were deemed to be causing, or th rea ten ing to cause, in ju ry to an A u s t r a l i an i n d u s t r y: Hong Kong and the Republic of Ch ina in respect of screws for wood; the Republic of Ch ina in respect of tenn is and squash racquets; and Ind ia and the Repub l ic of Korea in respect of certain welded steel pipes and tubes. December 15. It was announced that d i f fe r ing rates of du ty would be applied to imports of products of the t imber indu s t ry. Tariff quotas on thick plywood would be con t inued. December 19. A phased reduction in duties on impo r ts of jewe lry was announced. For most articles du t ies wou ld be lowered f rom 34 per cent to 30 per cent, 27.5 per cent, and 25 per cent, each change being effected at two-yearly intervals. December 20. The Export Licensing System was abolished in order to s t ream l ine export procedures. Exporters were no longer requ ired to surrender shipping documen ts to the Reserve Bank or a t rad ing bank acting as its agent, but they wou ld have a direct legal obliga- tion to sell export proceeds received in fo re ign currency to the Aus t ra l ian b ank ing system as soon as practicable. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at staying close to either side of the cross parities for currencies participating in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement.1 Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 29, 1978 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 13.3175 and S 13.4175, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through Aus tr ian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the relevant ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Off ice) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral mem- ber countries" ( IMF or OECD members with which settlements take place in convertible currencies) and "multilateral nonmember countries" (other countries with which settlements are made in convertible currencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, In ter im Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be free ly credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold coin or convertible cur- renc ies by a nonresident to the Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the conver- sion serves to make a current payment to a resident, as well as with paymen ts permitted by the Na t ional Bank 1 With e f f e ct f r om Ma rch 13, 1979, the Eu ropean Monetary System. 48 on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans f rom nonresidents or if the p aym ent serves to finance direct investment in Au s t r ia or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Bal- ances may be free ly converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of f u n ds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses pe rm it the ir use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The t rans fer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases licenses are granted free ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of coun- tries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible fore ign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts, and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses but most are free of quantitative restric- tion. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, when they are imported f rom any country other than Rhodesia.2 Nearly all imports f rom GATT countries, their associated terri- tories, and some other countries 3 are liberalized. Aus- tria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (b a r t e r ). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas 2 Goods liberalized for import f rom a given group of countries may be f ree ly impo r ted f rom any coun t ry in the g roup, provided that the coun t ry of expo r ta t ion and the c o u n t ry of p roduc t ion of the goods invo lved are in the same group. 3 The f u ll list is as fo l low s: A lge r ia, A rgen t ina, Australia*, Bahrain, Bang ladesh, Barbados, Be lg ium, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rm a, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Canada, Cen tral A f r ican Empire, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, D enm a rk ( inc lud ing Faroe Islands and Green- l a n d ), Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuado r, Egyp t, Equa to r ial Gu inea, Fiji, F i n l a n d, France, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, G h a n a, Greece, G u y a n a, Ha i t i, Iceland, Ind ia, Indones ia, Ireland, Is rae l, I ta ly, Ivo ry Coast, Jama ica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Ko rea, K uw a i t, Lesotho, Luxembou rg, Madagascar, Ma law i, Malaysia, Ma ld ives, Mali, Ma l ta, M a u r i t a n i a, Mau r i t iu s, Netherlands, New Zea- l a n d, N ica ragua, N ige r, N ige r ia, Norway, Pak is tan, Peru, Portugal, Q a t a r, Rw a n d a, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, Spain, Sri L ank a, Swaz i land, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, T r in idad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tu rkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United K ingdom, U n i t ed States, Upper Volta, U rugu ay, People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Za i re, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution app ly to specified impor ts f r om GATT coun tr ies. Dis- c re t iona ry ind iv idu al l icens ing is applicable to all other pr iva te impor ts not covered by the procedures listed above, i n c l u d i ng impo r ts of ce r ta in t ex t i l es f r om specified coun t r ie s. Licenses a re u s u a l ly g ran ted if the impo r ts concerned do not adverse ly a f f e ct domes t ic indu s t r i e s. Impo rt licenses may not be g r an t ed for goods impo r t ed u n d er compensa t ion t ran sac t ion s, un l e ss the re is no other way of s e t t l ing p aym en t; at present, t rade under such a r rangemen ts is neg l ig ib le. G ra ins, m i lk and bu t te r, and cattle, pigs, and horses for s laugh ter and produc ts f r om these a n im a ls for h um an con sump t ion a re impo r ted in accordance w i th a special system of con tro ls and r egu l a t ions m a i n t a i n ed u n d er the A g r i c u l t u r al Mar- k e t i ng Law and the law gove rn ing l ives tock f a rm i ng and t r a d i n g, and the m a r k e t i ng of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc ts are subject to impo rt levies. In some cases, impo rt licenses are issued only to impo r te rs who have received export cer t if ica tes. Import licenses are not t r an s f e r ab le and are va l id for s ix mon ths, but th is period may be ex tended. Paymen ts for impo r ts f r om, and o r ig in a t ing in, coun t r ies w i th wh ich Aus t r ia makes se t t lemen ts in conve r t ib le currenc ies do not requ i re exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, res iden ts are perm i t ted to con- clude transac t ions invo lv ing current inv is ib les w i th resi- den ts of coun tr ies that are membe rs of the IMF or the OECD. Excep t ions comp r ise ce r ta in t ran sac t ions con- c e rn ing t r an spo rt and in su r an c e. Most transac t ions in cu r rent inv i s ib les that invo lve paymen ts to res iden ts of other coun t r ies (e .g ., f r e igh t, comm iss ions, and the cost of assemb ly and r ep a i r s) are covered by general licenses; for the r em a i n i ng transac t ions, i n d i v i d u al licenses a re required. Paymen ts on account of genera l ly au thor ized invisibles to non re s iden ts may be made f ree ly, provided that no cap i tal t r a n s f er is invo lved. O ther p aym en ts abroad up to S 1,000 may be made f r e e ly and at any t ime. The r em a i n i ng paymen ts to "mu l t i la te ral nonmember coun- tries" for invisibles requ ire special licenses. Residents t rave l ing to coun tr ies w i th wh ich Aus tr ia makes se t t lemen ts in conver t ib le currenc ies may buy exchange f rom au thor ized banks or may ob ta in, as short- te rm advances f r om non res iden ts in mu l t i l a t e r al coun- tries, up to the equ iva lent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more fore ign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the Na t ional Bank. In add i t ion, Au s t r ian res iden ts may arrange for t r ips abroad th rough travel agents and pay in schil- lings to cover expend i tu res for hotels and food as well as t ran spo r ta t ion. Persons leav ing Aus t r ia may take w i th them S 15,000 in Au s t r ian notes and coin and any am o u nt in foreign notes and coin. AUSTRIA Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for expor ts regu la ted under the Foreign Trade Law have to be ob ta ined f rom the re levant m in- i s t ry o r, at the t ime of c lea rance, f r om the cus toms au tho r- i t ies. Goods exported und er compen sa t ion arrange- men ts are sub ject to l i c en s ing by the Federal M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry. For most other exports, licenses are not requ i red. Export licenses are issued w i th due cons ide ra t ion for the provisions of rele- v ant b i la te ral trade agreemen ts and the f u l f i l lm e nt of quo tas es tab l ished in accordance w i th such agreements, and for the needs of the A u s t r i an economy. Export c la ims exceeding the equ iva lent of S 26,000 must be dec la red. Export proceeds may either be su r r end e r ed or be deposited in accoun ts w i th au tho r ized b ank s. Such deposits in conver t ib le currenc ies may be used f r e e ly for au tho r ized paymen ts abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange rece ip ts f r om inv is ib les, if not surrendered or depos i ted in an account w i th an au thor ized bank, have to be dec lared w i th in eight days f rom the da te of co l lec t ion. They may e i ther be su r rende red or be depos- i ted w i th an au tho r ized b a nk and subsequen t ly are used in the same way as proceeds accru ing f rom exports. Persons en te r ing Au s t r ia may br ing in Au s t r ian or fo r e ign bankno tes and coin w i thout limit. Capital Some inwa rd cap i tal t ran s fe r s, some transac t ions that cou ld lead to such inflows, and some private sector bo r row ing f r om non res iden ts are at present restricted. The acqu i s i t ion by non res iden ts of Au s t r ian securities f rom au tho r ized banks is pe rm i t ted free ly, but the acqui- s i t ion of shares or par t ic ipa t ions in Aus tr ian companies or firms, and of most Au s t r ian real estate not intended for personal use is sub ject to ind iv idual approval by the Na t ional Bank. Direct inves tmen ts by nonresidents no rm a l ly are perm i t ted when they serve to create or m a i n t a in las t ing economic relations and provided that they are financed f rom fore ign currency accounts or Free Sch i l l ing Accounts, in f ree ly convertible foreign currency, or f rom prof it claims on the domestic firm concerned. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, in c lud ing those in schillings f rom Free Schilling Accounts, at present requ ire prior approval by the Na t ional Bank and m any are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for ( 1) invest- ment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and ( 3) loans f rom nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (these are licensed f r e e l y ). The gran t ing of permission for commercial credits with a ma tu r i ty of one to five years to finance imports of consumer goods, especially pas- senger automobiles, is restricted; import credit with a 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA m a tu r i ty cus tomary in the t rade concerned, but not exceeding one year for consumer goods, is licensed free ly. The short-term fore ign assets and l iab i l i t ies of au thor- ized banks in convertible currenc ies are not subject to l im i ta t ion, but an agreement w i th the Na t ional Bank provides that the domestic cred it ins t i tu t ions are to abstain f rom increas ing domestic l iqu id i ty by tak ing up fo re ign currency funds abroad and thus raising their schilling liabilities, and f rom ca l l ing in the ir fore ign loans prior to ma tu r i ty. A number of authorized banks are perm i t ted to accept convertible currencies f rom abroad for in te rbank on lend ing abroad at ma tu r i t ies of up to five years. In 1978 the Na t ional Bank licensed financial loans to non res iden ts w i th ma tu r i t ies of more t h an one year only to the extent that f u n ds were made available th rough the redemption of loans ou ts tand ing on Decem- ber 31, 1977, plus 7 per cent. Mor tgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Au s t r ian subs id ia r ies abroad were not subject to this l im i t .4 The Na t ional Bank permits the t r an s f er abroad of ( 1) proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of var ious foreign investments in Aus tr ia (shares or participation in Aus- t r ian enterprises, Au s t r ian securities, and real estate in Au s t r i a) and (2) repayments by residents of fore ign loans and credits. The t r an s f er of f u n ds owned by em igran ts, and paymen ts due to nonres iden ts on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may f ree ly g rant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- men t, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend fore ign agencies or individ- ually owned firms; earn ings accruing f rom such invest- ment usua l ly may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one y e a r ), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert inf luence on the management of the nonresident en terpr ise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Aus tr ia or abroad, provided that the pro- ceeds of the credit are not used w i th in Austria (except for commercial cred i ts). Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l ife insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documen ta t ion, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multi- 4 With effect f r om J anu a ry 1, 1979, however, this regulation was relaxed by introducing a new base date (December 31, 1978) and by raising the percentage limit to 15 per cent of credits outstanding on that date. 50 la te ral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges 5 and Aus t r ian securities; for fore ign securities and Au s t r ian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with cer ta in exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the V ienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept w i th such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con- vertible currencies. Residents may sell fore ign securities and Au s t r ian ex ternal bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited w i th Aus tr ian authorized banks, on ly th rough such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the fore ign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the fore ign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account w i th an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (exc lud ing jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe lry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is au thor ized by this law to deal in gold as defined th e r e in; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transac t ions with monetary authorities of other coun tr ies or with in te rna t ional financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Aus tr ia gold coin that is not legal tender on their own behalf or on beha lf of their customers ( inc lud ing non res iden ts ); the prices are based on those for coin and unmanu fac tu red gold in free marke ts abroad. A general license also pe rm i ts other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schillings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The M int releases certain types of gold coin ( res t r ikes) to authorized credit ins t i tu t ions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fur thermore, domestic trad ing between resi- dents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition f rom residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of 5 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re in whatever legal form ( inc lud ing shares) t h at are issued by foreign investment f u n ds or by similar ins t i tu t ions of wha tever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Ind iv idual licenses are issued auto- ma t ica l ly when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate sur- veillance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold coin that is not legal tender is subject to value- added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold shee ts ), the license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry to industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses auto- ma t ica l ly for certain gold imports w i th in its jur isd ic t ion. Where this law does not require an impo rt license (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the Na t ional Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry requ i re au thor iza t ion by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license pe rm i t t ing nonres ident trave lers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multi- lateral member countries" to export such coin up to a va lue of S 1,000 a person a trip. The Na t ional Bank's imports and exports do not requ ire import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and AUSTRIA of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automat- ically by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1978 January 30. The National Bank announced that it would approve applications for foreign currency loans by domestic credit ins t i tu t ions to foreign residents with a m a tu r i ty of more than one year only up to a limit of 7 per cent over the redemption of existing loans. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Aus t r ian subsidiaries abroad were not subject to this l im i t. October 16. Following the realignment of the deutsche ma rk within the European common margins arrange- ment, the target rate for the Austrian schilling vis-a-vis the deutsche mark was depreciated by about 1 per cent f rom S 725 = DM 100 to S 733 = DM 100. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Baham ian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$l and B$ 1.005, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, the buy ing rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 per cent above the buy ing ra te. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 per cent buy ing, and 0.75 per cent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 per cent buy ing or selling per <£ stg. 1. These charges are addi- t ional to the Central Bank's charges. A s tamp tax of B$0.7 is applied to all ou twa rd rem i t tances where the amount is B$30 or less. A fu r ther tax of B$0.7 is levied on every add i t ional B$30 or f rac t ion thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents through an inves tment currency dealer at f ree ly de term ined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1978 the bid and offer rates ref lec t ing this p r em ium were 16 and 21 per cent, respectively. The Bahamas fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f rom December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central B ank, wh ich delegates to au tho r ized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve a l loca t ions of fore ign exchange for certain cu r rent paymen ts; the approval au tho r i ty for impo rt paymen ts, t ravel exchange, and cash g i f ts is not dele- gated, except in G rand Bahama and the Fam i ly Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, arms and ammun i t ion, and, in cer ta in cases, indu s t r i al gold. The Depa r tment of Ag r i cu l tu re and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and the Police Depa r tment issues impo rt and export licenses for a rms and amm u n i t i o n. Impo r ts of indu s t r i al gold are licensed by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency The Bahama s' exchange con trol sys tem makes no d i s t in c t ion be tween fo re ign t e r r i to r i e s. Settlements w i th 1 This is f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy in respect of wh i ch t h e re is a general or spec if ic C e n t r al B a nk pe rm iss ion t h at it may be r e t a i n ed and used or disposed of as i n v e s tm e nt c u r r e n c y. Such p e rm i s s ion may ex ist in respect of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a c c r u i ng to r e s id en ts of the B a h am as f r om the sale or r e d em p t i on of fo r e ign c u r r e n cy s e c u r i t i es or the sale, l i q u i d a t i o n, r e d em p t i o n, or r e a l i z a t ion of p r o p e r ty or of d i rect inves t- m en ts ou t s ide the B a h am a s. The use of i n v e s tm e nt c u r r e n cy is pre- scr ibed for the p u r c h a se f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy securi- t ies and the m a k i ng of d i rect i n v e s tm e n ts o u t s i de the B ah am a s. 52 residents of foreign countries may be made in any fore ign currency 2 or in Baham ian dollars through an Ex ternal Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Baham ian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits but without work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Ac- coun ts for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts are normally funded entirely f rom foreign currency originating outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts w i th the Central Bank's approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the f ree disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held ma in ly by em igran ts. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are trans- ferab le through the official exchange market a f ter four years or through the investment currency market at any t ime; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or con tro l led because of health, social, or human i tar ian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is requ ired for mak ing payments for imports, irrespective of o r ig in ;4 this approval is no rma l ly given au toma t ica l ly upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documen ts proving the existence of a purchase contract. An impo rt surcharge ("emergency tax") of 12.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most imports. Customs entries are subject to a s tamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on cu r rent payments. Au- thor ized dealers have been given au tho r i ty to make paymen ts to non res iden ts on behalf of residents for ce r ta in services and other invisibles w i th in specified - Fore ign cu r renc ies compr ise all cu r renc ies o ther th an the Bahamian d o l l a r. ;! Persons of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty who have been gran ted "temporary re s iden t" s t a t us are t r e a t ed in some respects as nonres iden ts but are not p e rm i t t ed to ho ld E x t e r n al Accoun ts. 4 Except in G r and B ah ama and the Fam i ly Islands, where this a u t h o r i ty is de lega ted to c lea r ing b ank branches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution l im i ts. Such paymen ts i n c l u de f r e igh t, ships' d isbu rse- men ts, comm i s s ion s, roya l t ies, and in su rance p aym en t s. Res iden ts are e n t i t l e d, on app l i c a t ion to the Cen t ral B a n k, to a fo r e ign cu r r en cy t r av el a l l ow a n ce of the equ iva lent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tou r i st t ravel and B$5,000 a person a year for g enu ine business or p ro f e s s ion al t r a v e l. The a l lowance of B$ 1,000 for tou r ist t ravel exc ludes the cost of f a r es and t r av el services, wh i ch a re n o rm a l ly ob t a in ed aga in st p aym ent in B a h am i an do l l a rs to a t ravel agent in the B a h am a s. App l ica t ions for fo re ign exchange in excess of these amoun ts mu st be r e f e r r ed to the C en t r al B a n k, wh ich approves a ll bona f ide app l ica t ion s. Fo re ign exchange f a c i l i t i es ob t a in ed for t r av el may not be r e t a in ed abroad or be used ab road for pu rposes o ther t h an t r a v e l; any u n u s ed b a l an ce m u st be s u r r e n d e r ed w i t h in one m o n th of issue or, if the t r av e l er is s t i ll ab road, w i t h in one m o n th of h is r e t u rn to the Bahama s. Sub ject to ade- qu a te d o c um e n t a ry ev idence, an e d u c a t i on a l l ow a n ce of up to B$6,000 a person an academ ic y e ar is n o rm a l ly g r an t ed u p on a p p l i c a t i o n. A p p l i c a t i o ns f or f a c i l i t i es in excess of th is am o u nt h ave to be r e f e r r ed to the Cen t ral B a n k. Tempo ra ry res iden ts may r em it up to 50 per cent of t h e ir wages and sa la r ies but w h e re c omm i tm e n ts ou t s ide the B ah am as are la rger t h an 50 per cent of wages and sa la r ies a d d i t i o n al am o u n ts may also be rem i t ted. A t r a v e l er may t ake out of the B a h am as on h is pe r son, or in h is baggage, B a h am i an no tes not exceed ing B$70 in v a l u e, and notes of any o ther t e r r i t o ry not exceed ing US$1,000 in va lue. Exports and Export Proceeds No expo rt l icenses a re r equ i r ed except for c raw f ish and a rms and a m m u n i t i o n. The proceeds of exports mu st be o f fe red for sale to an au tho r ized dea ler as soon as the goods have reached the ir d e s t in a t ion or w i t h in s ix mon ths of s h i pm e n t; a l t e r n a t i v e l y, export proceeds may be used in any m a n n er acceptable to the Cen t ral Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Re s iden ts are obliged to collect w i t h o ut de lay a ll am o u n ts due to t h em f rom non re s iden ts and to o f fer the fo re ign c u r r e n cy proceeds for sale to an au tho r ized dea ler w i t h o ut de lay, but these r equ i r em en ts a re seldom en fo rced. There are no res tr ic t ions on the impo rt of fo re ign bankno te s. The impo rt of domes t ic bankno tes is sub ject to the app roval of the Cen t ral Bank. Capital A ll capital t r an s f e rs to coun tr ies outside the Bahamas requ ire exchange control approval and ou tf lows of resident-owned cap i tal a re res tr ic ted. Inw a rd t r an s f e rs do not requ i re exchange control app rova l, a l though the subsequent u t i l i z a t ion of the f u n ds in the Bahamas may requ i re au tho r iza t ion. The pe rm iss ion of the Central B a nk is requ ired in respect of any action whereby non re s iden ts acqu i re control of an incorporated BAHAMAS company con t ro l led by res iden ts. Res ident ind iv idua ls and comp an i es requ i re the specific permission of the C e n t r al B a nk to m a i n t a in b ank accoun ts outside the B ah am a s .5 The use of o f f i c i al exchange for ou tw a rd direct invest- ment is l im i ted to B$ 100,000 or 30 per cent of the total cost of the i n v e s tm e n t, wh ichever is g rea te r, for invest- m en ts f r om wh i ch the add i t ion al benef i ts expected to acc rue to the ba lance of paymen ts w i t h in 18 mon ths of the i n v e s tm e nt w i ll at least equal the to tal amount of i n v e s tm e n t, a nd w i ll c o n t i n ue t h e r e a f t e r. Inves tmen ts in excess of B$ 150,000 must be financed by inves tment c u r r e n cy or by fo r e ign cu r r en cy borrowed on su i tab le t e rm s, sub ject to i n d i v i d u al app roval by the Central B a n k. Pe rm i s s ion is not g iven for p ro jec ts which a re l i k e ly to have adve rse e f fec ts on the b a l an ce of paymen ts. In p r inc ip le, i nw a rd i n v e s tm e nt by non res iden ts is u n r e s t r i c t e d. However, the consent of the Cen t ral Bank is r e q u i r ed for the issue or t r a n s f er of shares in a B a h am i an c om p a ny to a non r e s id ent and for the t r an s f er of con t rol of a B a h am i an comp any to a non re s iden t. Whe re an i n v e s tm e nt takes the f o rm of a purchase of real p rope r ty, the non r e s id ent m u st ob ta in permission. Such pe rm i s s ion is n o rm a l ly g r an t ed, prov ided that a f a ir pr ice is pa id, and p a ym e nt may be made either in B a h am i an do l la rs f r om an Ex te rnal Account or in f o r e i gn currency. For a ll i n v e s tm e n ts w i th app roved s ta tu s, permission is a u t om a t i c a l ly given for the t r a n s f er of prof i ts and d i v i d e n d s, rep re sen t ing earned t r a d i ng prof i ts and invest- m e nt income. In the event of a sale or l iqu id a t ion, non r e s id ent inves tors are pe rm i t ted to repa t r ia te the proceeds, i n c l u d i ng any cap i tal app rec ia t ion, th rough the o f f i c i al fo re ign exchange ma rke t. Res iden ts r e q u i re the spec if ic app roval of the Cen tral B ank to buy p rope r ty ou ts ide the Bahama s; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made only w i th i n v e s tm e nt cu r rency, and app roval is l im i ted to one p rope r ty for each f am i ly. Any inc iden tal expenses connec ted w i th the purchase of p rope r ty for personal use may n o rm a l ly be met with inves tment currency; e x p e n d i t u r es necessary to preserve the proper ty or a r i s i ng d i rec t ly f r om i ts owne r sh ip, may w i th permission be met w i th fo re ign currency bought at the current m a rk et rate in the off ic ial fo re ign exchange ma rke t. The t r a n s f er of legacies and inhe r i tances due to non- re s ident bene f ic ia r ies und er w i l ls or in tes tac ies of persons who were B ah am i an residents at the t ime of their death is pe rm i t ted. However, perm iss ion is not norma l ly given for B ah am i an residents to settle any proper ty, other than by w i l l, for the benef it of nonresidents. A res ident may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special c ircums tances. r> Banks and t r u s ts established in the Bahamas are exempt f r om cer- t a in exchange con t rol regu la t ion s, p a r t i cu l a r ly w i th rega rd to their o f f sho re opera t ions. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS Foreign na t iona ls dom ic i led in the Bahama s, even if considered re s ident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a mea su re of exemp t ion f rom ce r ta in exchange control ob l iga t ions, no t ab ly w i th respect to the manda to ry deposit of fo re ign cu r r en cy secu r i t ies and the su r render of ce r ta in o ther fo r e ign cap i tal assets. Non res ident buye rs of B a h am i an secu r i t ies mu st pay for such purchases in B a h am i an do l la rs f rom an Ex te rnal Accoun t, in f u n ds eligible for c red it to an Ex te rnal Account, or in B a h am i an do l la rs a r i s i ng f r om the sale of fo re ign cu r rency in the o f f ic ial fo r e ign exchange m a rk e t; in teres t, d iv idends, and cap i tal p aym en ts on such secur i- t ies may not be rem i t ted ou ts ide the Bahamas un le ss the holdings have been p rope r ly acqu i red by non res iden ts. B ah am i an res iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to purchase fo re ign cu r rency securities w i th o f f ic ial exchange or out of export proceeds or other cu r rent ea rn ings; payment must be made w i th inve s tment cu r rency. A ll purchases, sales, and switches of fo re ign cu r r en cy secur i t ies in the Bahamas and a ll switches in fo re ign cu r r en cy secu r i t ies by B ah am i an res iden ts, wherever the switch takes place, requ i re pe rm iss ion f rom the Cen t ral B a n k, and a ll t rans- actions must take place th rough authorized agents.6 Alt fo re ign secur i t ies pu rchased by res iden ts of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an au tho r ized agen t. Securi- ties of other f o rm er Sterling Area coun t r ies are con- sidered fo re ign cu r rency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Cen t ral Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the inve s tment currency ma rke t; secur i t ies not so registered may be o f fe red for sale at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange. Residents leav ing the coun t ry w i th the in ten t ion of res id ing ou ts ide the Bahamas p e rm a n e n t ly a re redesig- na ted upon depa r tu re as nonres iden ts. Under no rmal ru les a f am i ly (or an i n d i v i d u a l ), leav ing the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere, may t r a n s f er at the cur- rent ma rket ra te in the o f f ic ial fo re ign exchange marke t, up to B$25,000 of its (or h i s) B a h am i an do l lar assets to the new coun t ry of residence, and may also take no rmal household and personal effects w i th them. Where the total va lue of the ir B ah am i an do l lar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is t r an s f e r ab le th rough the o f f ic ial exchange ma rket a f t er four years or th rough the invest- ment cu r rency market at any t ime. A f t er a person's redesignation as a nonres iden t, income acc ru ing f rom his assets r em a in ing in the Bahamas is no rma l ly rem i t tab le at the cu r rent ma rket rate in the o f f ic ial fore ign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks requ ire per- mission to borrow foreign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions w i th regard to their lend ing of fo re ign cur- rency to residents. Residents also requ ire permission to pay interest on, and to repay the pr inc ipal of, foreign 6 These are n ine banks and t ru st companies and others au thor ized to deal in Baham ian and fo r e ign cu r rency securities and to receive securi- ties in deposit. 54 c u r r e n cy loans through the conversion of Bahamian do l la r s. Where permission is granted for residents to accept fo re ign currency loans, such permission is nor- m a l ly cond i t ional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the f u n ds are requ i red to meet paymen ts to nonresidents for wh ich perm iss ion has been specifically given. A re s ident company wh ich is who l ly owned by non- res iden ts is not no rma l ly allowed to raise wo rk ing capital in B a h am i an do l lars unless such f u n ds are a sma ll pro- po r t ion of the to tal inves tmen t. If the company is par t ly owned by non res iden ts, the amount of such local cur- rency bo r row ing is de te rm ined in relation to the nonresi- dent in te re st in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and o ther lende rs res ident in the Bahamas requ i re permission be fo re they make loans in domestic currency to any body corpora te (o ther than a b a n k ), wh ich is resident in the B ah am as and is by any means con tro l led, whether d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly, by non res iden ts. However, com- pan ies wh ich are set up by non res iden ts p r ima r i ly to impo rt and d i s t r ibu te produc ts m anu f a c tu r ed outside the Bahamas are not no rma l ly allowed to borrow Baha- m ian dollars f r om residents either for fixed or wo rk ing cap i tal but must provide all the ir f inance in fore ign cu r rency; borrowings in a fore ign cu r rency no rma l ly are pe rm i t ted on application. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not pe rm i t ted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those res iden ts, however, who are known users of gold for indu s t r i al purposes may, w i th the approval of the Cen t ral Bank, meet the ir current i n d u s t r i al requirements. Impo rt licenses are f ree ly issued by the Central Bank to indu s t r ial users. Au tho r ized dealers are not required to ob ta in licenses for bu l l ion or coin. Commerc ial imports of gold jewe l ry do not require a license. There is no impo rt du ty on gold bu l l ion or gold coin; however, an impo rt du ty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewe l ry f rom all sources. A 7.5 per cent s tamp tax payab le to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry f rom any source. There is no restriction on the acquisi- t ion or re ten t ion by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemora t ive gold coins in denom ina t ions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. On the occasion of the fifth anniversary of Independence, the Bahamas issued commemorative coins of B$10 in silver and B$100 in gold. Changes during 1978 February 1. The Tariff Act of 1975 was amended in order to abolish import duties on most medicines, canned corned beef, and ra f f ia; in addition, duties on crystal, china, and other items sold ma in ly to tourists were reduced f rom 32.5 per cent to 12.5 per cent and those on clothing items made of cashmere and angora were reduced from 20 per cent to 5 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bah ra in is the Bah ra in Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. Bah ra in confines exchange rates for the Bah ra in d i n ar w i th in ma rg ins of 7.25 per cent, in te rms of the fixed relation- sh ip between the B ah r a in d in ar and the SDR. The U.S. do l lar is the in te rven t ion cu r rency. The m id - ra te of the B ah r a in d i n ar for the U.S. do l lar, quo ted by the Bah ra in Mone tary Agency is ad jus ted f rom t ime to t ime. The Mone ta ry Agency also quotes da i ly rates for pounds s te r l ing and deutsche m a rk based on the latest ava i lab le rates for the U.S. do l lar aga inst those currencies. On December 31, 1978 the Mone ta ry Agency's b u y i ng and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.38370 and BD 0.38400, respectively, per US$1, and those for s te r l ing were BD 0 .78295*and BD 0.78545, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Mone ta ry Agency does not deal w i th the pub l ic. In the ir dea l ings w i th the pub l ic, comme rc ial b a n ks are requ i red to use the Agency's ra tes for U.S. do l la rs, pounds s te r l ing, and deu tsche m a rk but they a re au tho r ized to charge an exchange comm i s s ion of 2 per m i ll (special ra tes of comm iss ion app ly for t ran sac t ions up to BD 1 ,000). The banks' ra tes for other cu r renc ies are based on the Mone ta ry Agency's rates for the U.S. do l lar and the New York m a rk et ra te for the cu r rency concerned aga in st the U.S. do l lar .1 There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo r e ign exchange. B ah r a in f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Mon e t a ry Agency is the exchange control a u t h o r- ity but there is no exchange control leg is la t ion in B a h r a i n. No im p o rt or expo rt licenses are requ i red (except for a rms and amm u n i t i o n, te lev is ion cameras, and alcoholic beve rage s ). However, impo r te rs and expo r te rs mu st be reg is tered w i th the comme rc ial registry m a i n t a i n ed by the M i n i s t ry of Comme rce and Ag r icu l- t u re and must be m emb e rs of the B a h r a in Chamber of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Prescription of Currency A ll se t t lemen ts w i th Israel and Rhodes ia are pro- h ib i ted. O therw ise, no r e q u i r em e n ts a re impo sed on exchange paymen ts or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A d i s t i n c t i on is made be tween a c coun ts he ld by resi- den ts and those held by non r e s id en t s. O f fsho re b a n k i ng u n i ts a re not n o rm a l ly p e rm i t t ed to ho ld re s ident accoun ts. 1 Trave lers f r om the U n i t ed A r ab Em i r a t es and Qa tar a re p e rm i t t ed to ex ch ange l im i t ed am o u n ts of U .A .E. d i r h am and Qa tar r i y al b a n k- notes at fixed ra tes of Dh 10 = BD 1 or QR 10 = BD 1. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are produc ts manu fac tu red by fore ign companies that have been blacklisted by the A rab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cu l tu red pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are requ i red only for a rms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are in practice imported on ly by the Bahra in Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of per- m i t ted impor ts may be obtained free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of cer ta in refined petroleum products to South A f r i ca have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodi- t ies may be exported free ly. There are no requirements a t tached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repa tr ia ted or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the cur- rency invo lved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not res t r ic ted, except that paymen ts must not be made to, or received f r om, Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may b r i ng in or t ake out of B ah r a in any amount in domestic or fo re ign bankno tes. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by res iden ts or nonresidents, but paymen ts may not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodes ia. Profits f rom fo re ign inves tmen ts in B a h r a in may be t ran s fe r red abroad f ree ly w i th the excep t ion th at und er A r t ic le 72 of the Mone tary Agency Law the b a n ks are sub ject to special ru les regard ing the p a ym e nt of d iv idends and the rem i t tance of the ir prof i ts. Licensed o f fsho re b a n k i ng un i ts may f ree ly engage in t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th non res iden ts; t ran sac t ions w i th resi- d e n ts a re not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Gold Res iden ts may f r e e ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any f o rm are f r e e ly perm i t ted and do not require a l icense. Impo r ts of gold jewe l ry are subject to a 10 per cent cu s toms du ty but gold ingo ts are exempt. Changes during 1978 January 26. The Bah ra in Mone ta ry Agency announced t h at the B a h r a in d in ar was pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. August 15. The B ah r a in Mone ta ry Agency w idened the o f f ic ial ma rg in for cu r rency in t e rv en t ion f r om 2 .5 per cent to 7.25 per cent on e i ther side of the o f f ic ial ra te. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the in te rven t ion currency. On December 29, 1978 the m idd le rate of the official buy ing and selling rates (spot) was Tk 30.5250 = <£ stg. 1. The official exchange rate is sub ject to ad jus tment f rom t ime to time.1 Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. On December 29, 1978 the spot buy ing and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank for authorized dealers were Tk 30.50 and Tk 30.55, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. On the same date the spot buy ing and selling rates (tele- graphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 30.4844 and Tk 30.5813, respectively, per £ stg. 1. A d i f fe rent effec t ive exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme, under wh ich fore ign exchange earnings remitted by wo rke rs abroad may be used for specified imports or for expend i tu re on foreign travel. On December 30, 1978 this rate was Tk 19.50 per US$1. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Forward transac t ions of the Bang ladesh Bank are confined to purchases of deutsche ma rk, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, and sales of pounds s ter l ing and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at au thor- ized banks are ava i lab le for export proceeds in deu tsche ma rk, Japanese yen, pounds s te r l ing, and U.S. do l la rs and for import paymen ts in pounds s te r l ing and U.S. dollars, as well as for cer ta in s ter l ing paymen ts of ship- p ing companies and airlines. Forward transactions cover up to a max imum period of six months. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in is te red by the Bang ladesh Bank in accordance w i th general policy fo rmu l a t ed in consu l ta t ion w i th the M i n i s t ry of F inance. The six fo r- eign and six domestic commercial banks have been appo in ted au tho r ized dealers (au tho r ized banks ). The Chief Con t ro l l er of Impo r ts and Exports of the M i n i s t ry of Commerce (Foreign Trade D iv is ion) is respons ib le for the issuance of impo rt licenses. Cer ta in t rade trans- actions are conducted th rough state t r a d i ng agencies, i n c l u d i ng the T rad ing Corpora t ion of B ang l ad e sh (TCB) and the Bangladesh J u te M a r k e t i ng Corporation. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll coun t r ies are sub ject to ex ch ange con tro l. Settlements w i th coun t r ies w i th wh ich Bang la- desh has b i la te ral p aym en ts ag reemen t s2 n o rm a l ly mu st 1 On J a n u a ry 15, 1979 t h is r a te was changed to Tk 31.125 = <£ s tg. 1. - B u l g a r i a, People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, N o r th Ko rea, Po l and, Rom an i a, U.S.S.R., V iet N am, and Yugos lav ia. 56 be effected th rough clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Burma, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to raw jute, j u te goods, and tea and to petroleum and na tu ral gas and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary un i ts through the Clearing Union.3-4 As regards other coun- tries, settlements normally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the coun try of origin of the goods or to any other coun try (with the exception of those countries f rom which importation is prohibited); they may be made (1) in takas for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the coun try concerned; (2) in the currency of the coun t ry concerned; or (3) in any free ly convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely conver t ib le fore ign exchange or in takas f rom a Non- resident Taka Account of a bank abroad. All settle- ments with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonres ident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accoun ts related to the coun t ry in wh ich the account holder is permanen t ly residing.5 Specified debits and credits to nonresident accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the pr ior approval of the Bangladesh Bank du r ing the absence of the account ho lder from Bang ladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bang ladesh Bank but are subject to r epo r t ing ex post. All d ip loma t ic missions operating in Bangladesh, their d ip loma t ic officers, home-based members of the mission s ta f fs, in t e rn a t ion al nonp ro f it h um a n i t a r i an o rgan iza t ions f u n c t i o n i ng in Bang ladesh and the ir expa tr ia te employ- ees, fo r e ign oil compan ies engaged in oil exploratory wo rk, fo re ign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and fore ign na t iona ls residing in Ban- gladesh regardless of the ir s ta tus are allowed to m a in t a in Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th receipts of inwa rd rem i t tances in conve r t ib le fore ign exchange, and may be debited f ree ly and at any t ime for rem i t tances abroad in convertible currenc ies and for t rans fe rs to Nonconve r t ib le Taka :5 P a ym e n ts made u n d er the Bang ladesh -Pak is tan trade agreement are r e q u i r ed to be in conve r t ib le fo r e ign exchange. 4 The Bang lade sh Bank announces exchange ra tes be tween the Asian C l e a r i ng U n i on and the member coun t r ies' cu r renc ies twice a mon th. r> The accoun ts of the Un i t ed N a t ions and its agencies, however, are t r e a t ed as res ident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts. Transfers between Conve r t ib le Taka Accoun ts are f ree ly perm i t ted. Under the Wage Ea rne rs' Scheme, Bang ladesh na t iona ls and persons of Bang ladesh or ig in who are work- ing abroad are pe rm i t ted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denom ina ted in pounds s ter l ing or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited w i th ( 1) rem i t tances in convertible currencies received f rom abroad through normal bank ing channe ls; (2) proceeds of convertible currenc ies (currency notes, t rave le rs checks, d ra f t s, etc.) b rought into Bang ladesh by the account ho lder wh i le on a tempo ra ry v is it to Bang ladesh, prov ided they were declared to the customs upon a r r ival in Bang ladesh; and (3) t r an s f e rs f rom other Foreign Cu r rency Accoun ts opened u n d er the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be deb i ted, w i t h o ut re s t r ic t ion, but subject to repor t- ing to the Bangladesh Bank, for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) a ll local d isbursemen ts; (2) t r a n s f e rs to o ther Foreign Currency Accoun ts opened u n d er the Wage Ea rne rs' Scheme; (3) payment for impor ts of specified goods; (4) p a ym e nt of b a nk comm i s s ions and o ther b ank charges connected w i th the h a n d l i ng of the accoun ts; and (5) travel expend i tures abroad for bus iness or p r iva te purposes up to the equ iva lent of <£ stg. 100 if the account holder travels to Bu rma, Ind ia, Nepal, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka, and up to the equ iva lent of <£ stg. 300 if he travels to other countries. The number of trips to the group of ne ighbor ing countries mentioned above is restricted to once a year, whereas the re is no restric- t ion on the n um b er of t r ips to other coun t r ies. Non re s ident accounts may be opened on ly w i th the p r ior approval of the Bang ladesh B a n k. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts are financed e i ther f rom Bang ladesh's own resources or w i th fo re ign aid, loans, and ba r ter arrange- men ts. Imports financed f rom Bangladesh's own resources are licensed w i th in the f ramewo rk of an annual import policy ( import budge t ). Under the impo rt po l icy for the fiscal year 1978/79 (Ju ly 1978-June 1979), i tems that may be impor ted were classified in to f o ur broad categories: (1) goods impor ted by "commercial impo r t- ers," in c lud ing the TCB; (2) raw ma te r ia ls and pack ing ma ter ia ls impor ted by " indus t r ial un i ts" recognized as such under an en t i t lement system; (3) i tems impor ted exc lus ive ly by the TCB a n d / or j o i n t ly by the TCB and p r iva te sector impo r te rs; and (4) i tems impor ted under the Wage Earners' Scheme against p aym ent abroad or f rom Foreign Cu r rency Accounts. No pro- vision was made for commerc ial impo r ts of any other goods. All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single coun t ry licenses are issued for imports under bilateral trade or paymen ts arrangemen ts and for tied aid impo r ts. Other impo rt licenses are va l id wo r ldw ide, except that impo r ts f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Licenses and letter of credit au tho r iza t ion fo rms issued BANGLADESH to commerc ial impor ters rema in va l id for 9 mon ths and 6 mon ths, respectively, f rom the date of issuance. Licenses issued to i n d u s t r i al consumers are va l id for 12 mon th s. Licenses (o ther t h an those issued und er the Expo rt Pe r fo rmance License Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not t r an s f e r ab l e, and when they exp i re, are not no rma l ly reva l ida ted except where, ow ing to c i rcum s tances beyond the con trol of impor ters, the le t ter of c red it r equ i r em ent could not be met or s h i p p i ng a r rangemen ts could not be made. Irrevocab le le t ters of cred it mu st be opened w i th in f o ur mon ths f r om the da te of issuance of licenses, except for books and per iod ica ls, wh ich may be impo r ted on a con s ignment basis. Cer ta in impor ts are reserved for the TCB, in c lud ing ce r ta in chemical and me tal products, cement, sugar, certain cotton textiles, and woolen fab r ics. In add i t ion, the impor ta t ion of a number of items is reserved exc lu s ive ly for o ther pub l ic sector agencies; these in c lude a i rp lane pa r ts, f ire eng ines, coal and coke, c in em a tog r aph ic f i lms, ce r ta in cotton tex t i les, ed ib le oil, fe r t i l ize r s, insecticides, and wood and t imber. There a re l im i ted f a c i l i t i es ou ts ide the import program for m inor impo r ts by specified end-users, such as hospitals and edu c a t ion al or techn ical i n s t i t u t i o n s. The l icen s ing of impo r ts of specified raw ma ter ia ls and pack ing m a t e r i a ls by indu s t r i al consumers is gov- erned by an en t i t l em ent sys tem, based on the require- men ts for va r ious indus t r ies du r ing each "import" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. F irms in the i n d u s t r i al sector are given an en t i t le- ment for impo r ta t ion of specified raw ma ter ia ls and pack ing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the en t i t lemen t. Separately, indus tr ial consumers may be g ran ted impo rt licenses for par ts and accessories of mach ine ry. Goods imported against licenses issued to indu s t r ial consumers must be used in the indus t ry concerned and must not be sold or t rans fe r red w i thout pr ior approval. Under an Export Pe r fo rmance License Scheme aimed at encou rag ing indus tr ial exports, industries engaged in export bus iness (other than j u t e, j u te goods, or loose tea), or w i th export po ten t ia l, may receive licenses in excess of the ir no rmal entitlement for the impo r ta t ion of the ir raw ma ter ial requ i remen ts, on the basis of their export pe r fo rmance, in respect of certain specified items. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be c la imed w i th in six mon ths of the realization of the export proceeds. These licenses are transferab le. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transac t ions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH restricted. No foreign exchange is provided for tour ist travel. Applications for fore ign exchange for business travel, medical t rea tmen t, and educa t ion abroad are considered on an ind iv idual basis; as a rule, for business travel the amount gran ted is US$50 a day, subject to a max imum of US$3,000 a ca lendar year for exporters whose total export earn ings in the preceding year were T k 2 .5 m i l l ion or above and a max imum of US$1,500 for those whose export earn ings were less than Tk 2.5 m i l l ion; for medical t rea tment the amount gran ted is about £ stg. 400. A Bangladesh na t ional proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase fore ign exchange f rom a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to a certain l im it (see section on Nonres ident Accounts, above). Foreign na t iona ls working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before mak- ing remittances abroad for f am i ly ma in tenance purposes; such approval is u sua l ly g ran ted up to 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a max imum of <£ stg. 200 a mon th (net of tax) if the terms of em p l o ym e nt have been approved by the Gove rnmen t. Nonresident travelers may take out the fo re ign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on en t ry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, w i thout ob ta in ing the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the amount converted, which- ever is smaller, into convertible fore ign currencies. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh na t iona ls may take out Tk 20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received w i th in four months of shipment. Additional import licenses are issued to certain export industries based on their export performance. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals work ing abroad may retain the countervalue of certain foreign exchange in Foreign Currency Accounts. All Bangladesh na t iona ls who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming in to their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer w i th in one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign na t iona ls residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earnings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered, w i th in one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 20 is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and for- eign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident 58 travelers without l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Capital All ou tward t rans fe rs of capital require approval; such approval is not norma l ly granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, other than fore ign exchange, owned in any coun try other than Bang ladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approva l. This requ i rement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whe ther held by residents or not, and to all fore ign securities held by residents. Au tho r ized dealers may ob ta in short-term loans and ove rd ra f ts f rom overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, pro- vided th at they are ob ta ined only in the currency of the coun try or mone ta ry area in which the overseas bank b ranch or correspondent is s i tua ted. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is pro- h ib i ted. Borrowing by nonres iden t-owned or nonresident- controlled enterprises f rom commercial banks in Ban- gladesh, as well as f rom abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guaran tees or collateral outside Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized dealers may however, approve loans, ove rd ra f ts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to com- panies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Au thor ized dealers must obtain approval before making any long-term loans in fore ign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign firms with branches in Bangladesh are required to submit statements of their foreign exchange earnings at the end of each calendar quarter. Under the Industrial Investment Policy, foreign private investment is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepreneurs. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new invest- ment, foreign investors generally are required to provide the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange com- ponent as equity capital. There is no ceiling on private investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to seven years, depending on location. All foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted net of tax. Gold The import and export of gold or sliver in any fo rm are prohibited w i thout special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments ( inc lud ing coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other fo rm except by licensed indus tr ia l is ts or dentists. Changes during 1978 January 1. The import program for the shipping period January-June 1978 was announced. The scope of the Export Performance License Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme, pertaining to the impo r ta t ion of goods not norma l ly permitted, was expanded. January 24. A barter trade agreement, va l id for one year, was concluded w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. February 22. A b i la te ral trade and paymen ts agree- men t, valid u n t il December 31, 1978, was concluded w i th the U.S.S.R. Under the agreemen t, t ransac t ions would be settled th rough nonconve r t ib le s te r l ing accoun ts opened w i th designated banks in the two coun t r ies. The commod i t ies to be exported f rom Bangladesh to the U.S.S.R. wou ld inc lude raw ju te and ju te produc ts, goat- skins, tea, cables, textile products, vegetables, and f r u i t s. The commodities to be exported f r om the U.S.S.R. to Bangladesh would inc lude spare parts for a i r c r a ft and helicopters, mach ine ry and equ ipmen t, me ta ls, ke ros ine, and cotton. February 27. Subject to the approval of the Bang la- desh Bank, sales proceeds f rom goods impor ted u n d er the Wage Earners' Scheme could be credited to non- resident accounts. February 28. The buy ing and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank for the taka against the U.S. dollar were to be based on the cross-rate between the U.S. do l lar and the pound s te r l ing, provided th at the b u y i ng rate wou ld not be lower than Tk 14.8090 per US$1 for both spot and fo rw a rd (up to s ix m o n t h s ), and the selling rates wou ld not be lower t h an Tk 14.8425 ( spo t) and Tk 14.8981 ( fo rwa rd up to six mon th s) per US$1. April 17. The l im it on the am o u nt of the un spent taka ba lance non re s ident t rave le rs could reconvert in to BANGLADESH convertible foreign currencies without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank was raised from Tk 250 to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the total amount of foreign exchange converted into taka, whichever was smaller. April 18. The limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that authorized banks were allowed to provide in respect of all authorized payments was fixed at US$50 or its equivalent. April 24. The exchange rates for sterling at which the Bangladesh Bank would deal with authorized banks were set as follows: spot buying, Tk 28.00 = £ stg. 1; spot selling, Tk 28.05 = <£ stg. 1; forward buying (up to six mon th s ), Tk 28.00 = £ stg. 1; and forward selling (up to six mon ths ), Tk 28.1552 = <£ stg. 1. The floor rates for the U.S. dollar (spot and forward) were discontinued. Subsequently, these rates were changed on three occasions, on August 22, September 18, and October 23. A f ter the last of these changes, the spot buy ing and selling rates were Tk 30.50 = <£ stg. 1 and Tk 30.55 = <£ stg. 1, respectively. The fo rwa rd b u y i ng and selling ra tes( up to to six mon ths) were Tk 30.50 = £ stg. 1 and Tk 30.6645 = £ stg. 1, respectively. April 26. Authorized banks were allowed to provide fo re ign cu r rency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 w i th respect to approved travel expenses only (see en try for Ap r il 18, abov e ). May 8. A trade and payments agreement, valid u n t il June 30, 1979, was concluded w i th Hungary. June 13. A trade and paymen ts agreement, valid u n t il June 30, 1979 was concluded w i th Bu lga r ia. June 30. The import program for the fiscal year 1978 /79 was announced. The level of imports was established at Tk 14.5 b i l l ion. July 21. A bar ter t rade agreemen t, va l id un t il J u ly 20, 1979, was concluded w i th Viet N am. August 9. The foreign exchange allowance for pil- g r ims t r av e l ing to Mecca for h a jj in 1978 was set at the equ iva lent of Tk 10,784 ( f or t ravel by a i r) and Tk 11,676 ( f or t ravel by sea, exc lud ing the cost of pas- s ag e ). In add i t ion, p i lgr ims were allowed to purchase fo re ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$300 under the Wage Earners' Scheme. September 14. A trade and paymen ts agreement, valid un t il September 13, 1979, was concluded w i th Po land. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 29, 1978 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0250, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the Canad ian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 per cent buying,, and 1.375 per cent selling. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canad ian dollar were BDS$ 1.6832 and BDS$ 1.7096, respectively, per C an$ l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$ 1.0931 and BDS$1.1103, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$4.0583 and BDS$4.1219, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1. Under c lear ing a r rangemen ts with regional mone ta ry authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun t r ies1 at fixed rates ( i n c l u d i ng a commission of 0.125 per c e n t ), but purchases on ly East Car ibbean and Trinidad and Tobago do l lar notes. The rate applied mu tua l ly for the pu rchase of cu r rency notes is the par i ty ra te between each pair of currenc ies determined on the basis of the U.S.- do l lar ra te. The Cen tral Bank regulates the commission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings w i th their customers in CARICOM cur- rencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is adm in is tered by the Cen tral Bank. The Cen tral Bank delegates to au tho r ized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve normal import paymen ts and the a l loca t ion of fore ign exchange for ce r ta in o ther cu r rent paymen ts and for cash g i f ts. The exchange control system provides that fore ign exchange should no rma l ly be su r rende red to an author- ized dealer. The no rmal exchange con trol directives do not apply to t ransac t ions be tween residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South A f r ica. Trade controls are adm in is te red by the M in i s t ry of Ag r icu l tu re, Food, and Consumer A f f a i r s. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th res iden ts of coun t r ies outside the CAR ICOM area o ther than Rhodesia or South A f r i ca may be made in any fo re ign cu r rency ,2 or th rough an Exter- 1 The CAR ICOM c o u n t r i es a re A n t i g u a, Ba rbados, Be l ize, Dom in ica, G r e n a d a, G u y a n a, J am a i c a, M o n t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. L u c i a, S t. V i n c e n t, and T r i n i d ad and Tobago. - Fo re ign cu r renc ies compr ise all cu r r en c i es o th er t h an the Ba rbados do l l a r. 60 nal Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados do l lars), or in the cur- rency of the CARICOM coun try concerned, except that commercial banks may issue travelers checks denom- inated in U.S. dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may ma in ta in in foreign currencies Foreign Cur- rency Accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated fre- quency of receipts and paymen ts in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the condi- t ions of appoval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. Ex ternal Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are ma in ta ined in Barbados dol- lars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payab le on External Accounts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other paymen ts covered by delegated au tho r i ty to authorized dealers. Other debits and any ove rd ra f ts requ i re ind iv idual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to requ i re certain payments in favor of nonres iden ts that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accoun ts may not be w i thd rawn without approval, other t h an for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted and certain imports or ig ina t ing in non-CARicoM coun t r ies requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses. The use of import l i c en s ing r equ i r em en ts and q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions a re the chief tools of Ba rbad ian ex ternal commercial policy, since ta r i ff policy is pre-empted by CAR ICOM. The list of produc ts subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import l icens ing are subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion. Some i tems on the import l icens ing list may be free ly imported throughout the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution year, wh i le some others are sub ject to temporary restric- tion ( p a r t i c u l a r ly ag r icu l tu ral p roduc ts which tend to be subject to seasonal r e s t r i c t i o n ). Cer ta in impor ts are proh ib i ted; these i n c l u de va r ious f o o d s t u f fs and beer not produced w i t h in the CAR ICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for cer ta in ga rmen t s, the impor ta t ion of which is to ta l ly proh ib i ted if the product is below a m i n im um c.i.f. va lue. I n d i v i d u al l icenses are also required for impo r ts of commod i t ies sub ject to the pro- visions of the Oils and Fats Ag r e em ent be tween the Gov- e rnm en ts of Barbados, Dom in ica, G r en ad a, G u y a n a, S t. Luc ia, S t. V incen t, and T r in id ad and Tobago, whe ther the goods a re be ing impo r ted f r om CAR ICOM coun t r ies or f rom elsewhere. Special l i c en s ing a r r ang em en ts have been made for the r egu l a t ion of t r ade be tween Ba rbados and other CAR ICOM coun t r i es in 22 ag r i cu l tu r al commodities. Paymen ts for au tho r ized impo r ts a re p e rm i t t ed upon app l ica t ion and subm iss ion of d o c um e n t a ry ev idence ( invo ices and customs w a r r a n t s) to au tho r ized dealers. Adv an ce p a ym e n ts for impo r ts r e q u i re p r ior app roval by the Cen tral Bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv i s ib l es r equ i re exchange con trol approval. Except for t ran sac t ions i n v o l v i ng res iden ts of Rhodes ia and South A f r i c a, p aym en ts for a ll commerc ial t ran sac t ions a re pe rm i t ted f r e e ly when the app l i c a t ion is suppo r ted by app rop r ia te d o c um e n t a ry ev idence. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to au tho r ized dealers to p rov ide basic a l loca t ions of fo r e ign exchange for certain paymen ts of a personal n a tu re and for s u n d ry paymen ts. These i n c l u de fo re ign t ravel ( f or wh ich up to BDS$1,500 a person a c a l end ar year may be a l loca ted for p r iv a te t ravel and up to BDS$4,500 a person a ca lendar year for bus iness t r a v e l ), expenses of educa t ion abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a y e a r ), sub sc r ip t ions to news- papers and magaz ines, income tax r e f u n d s, o f f ic ial pay- men ts, and l i fe in su r an ce p r em i um s. App l ica t ions for add i t ional am o u n ts or for pu rposes for wh ich the re is no basic a l loca t ion are approved by the au tho r i t ie s, pro- vided that no un au tho r i z ed t r a n s f er of cap i tal seems to be invo lved. The cost of t r an spo r t a t ion to any des t ina- tion may be settled in domes t ic cu r r en cy and is not deduc ted f rom the t ravel a l loca t ion. Res iden ts t r av e l ing to any de s t ina t ion outside Bar- bados may take out fo re ign cu r r en cy notes and coin up to the v a lue of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Non res ident v is i tors are not pe rm i t ted to take out any Barbados currency but may f ree ly export any fo re ign currency they had p rev ious ly brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Specific licenses are requ ired for the export of cer ta in goods to any coun t ry; these goods inc lude rice, cane sugar, r um, molasses, and cer ta in other food products, BARBADOS sewing mach ines, po r t land cemen t, and pe tro leum prod- uc ts. All o ther goods may be exported w i thout license. The co l lec t ion of export proceeds is supervised by the Cen t ral Bank to ensu re that proceeds in fo re ign curren- cies are su r rende red w i th in six mon ths f rom the da te of sh ipm en t. Proceeds from Invisibles Fore ign cu r r en cy proceeds f r om inv is ib les must be sold to an au tho r ized dea le r. Trave lers to Barbados may b r i ng in f r e e ly notes and coin d enom in a t ed in Barbados d o l l a rs or in any fo r e ign cu r rency. Res ident travelers are r e q u i r ed to sell th e ir ho ld ings of fo re ign cu r renc ies to an a u t h o r i z ed dea ler upon r e t u rn to Barbados. Capital A ll o u tw a rd cap i tal t r a n s f e r s, i n c l u d i ng direct invest- men ts by res iden ts and the purchase by res iden ts of fo r e ign cu r rency secur i t ies and of real estate s i tua ted ab road, r equ i re exchange con trol app rova l. Certificates of t i t le to fo r e ign cu r rency secu r i t ies held by residents m u st be lodged w i th an au thor ized depository in Barba- dos and e a rn ings on these secu r i t ies must be repatriated and su r rende red to an au thor ized dea ler. Personal capital t r an s f e r s, such as inhe r i tances due to non r e s id en t s, r equ i re exchange con trol approval. Trans- fe rs in respect of inhe r i tances are restricted to BDS$20,000 a n n u a l ly for each non re s ident benef ic iary, sub ject to the payment of estate du t ies. Dowries in the fo rm of se t t lemen ts, and cash g i f ts may be t rans fe r red to non r e s id en ts w i th exchange con trol approval, nor- m a l ly up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Em ig ra t ing Bar- b ad i an n a t ion a ls a re g ran ted se t t l ing - in a l lowances f rom t h e ir dec lared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a fam i ly u n it a year. The Central Bank also considers applica- t ions f r om fo re ign na t iona ls who have resided in Bar- bados and are p roceed ing to take up pe rmanent resi- dence ab road, prov ided that they dec lare the ir assets held in Barbados. Direct inv e s tm ent by non r e s id en ts may be made with exchange con trol app rova l. The r em i t t an ce of earn ings on, and l i q u i d a t i on proceeds f r om, such inves tment is pe rm i t ted, subject to the submission of documen ta ry ev idence as to the va l id i ty of the rem i t tance, the dis- charge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the inves tmen t, and the reg is tra t ion of the or ig inal inves tment with the Cen tral Bank. The issuance and t ran s fer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados requ i re exchange control ap- prova l, which is freely given on condition that an adequa te amount of foreign currency is brought in for the ir purchase. Proceeds f rom the realization of these securities may be rem i t ted when it is established that the or ig inal investment was f inanced f rom fore ign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barba- dos for pr iva te purposes with f u n ds f rom foreign cur- 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS rency sources; local currency f in an c ing is not o rd ina r i ly perm i t ted. Proceeds f rom the rea l iza t ion of such inves tmen ts equ iva lent to the am o u nt of fo re ign currency b rought in may be repa tr ia ted f ree ly. Capital sums rea l ized in excess of th is am o u nt may be repa t r ia ted f ree ly on the basis of a calculated rate of re turn on the or ig inal fo re ign inve s tmen t, as fo l low s: for the last f ive years at 8 per cent per a n n um; for the five years immed i- ately p reced ing the last five yea rs at 5 per cent; and for any period p reced ing the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amoun ts in excess of the sum so der ived are res tr ic ted to the rem i t tance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Cen t ral Bank is requ i red for residents to borrow abroad or for nonres iden ts to borrow in Barbados. Au thor ized dea le rs may assume short-term l iab i l i ty positions in fo re ign currencies for the f inanc ing of approved t ran s fe rs in respect of bo th t r a de and non- t rade t ransac t ions. They may also f ree ly accept deposits f rom nonres iden ts. Any bo r row ing abroad by au thor- ized dealers to finance the ir domestic operations requ i res the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A gold coin w i th a face va lue of BDS$100 is legal tender and is in l im i ted c ircu la t ion. Residents who are pr iva te persons are perm i t ted to acqu i re and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an author- ized dea ler unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other t h an the monetary au thor i t ies, authorized dealers, and indus tr ial users are not permitted to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other t h an jewe lry or coins for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are perm i t ted for indu s t r ial pur- poses and are subject to customs du t ies and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the M in i s t ry of Ag r icu l tu re, Food, and Consumer A f fa i r s; no license is required to export gold but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1978 January 1. The Council of Ministers of the CARICOM introduced new rules for de term in ing goods of Common Market origin. The old system was based predominantly on a value-added concept, whereas the new system would be based on a "process list." Under the old system, for a product to qu a l i fy as being exempt f rom the external ta r i f f, it was necessary to prove that not more than 50 per cent (in the case of more developed countries, and 40 per cent in the case of less developed coun tr ies) of non-Common Market materials had been used in its production and that such production did not consist solely of certain m in imal processes. The new rules of origin generally required that the local processing must result in a finished product which could be classified in a heading of the Brussels tariff nomenclature that was 62 d i f f e r e nt f rom any heading under which foreign inputs were classified. The new rules would not become effec- t ive u n t il ra t i f ied by each of the member states. January 1. A tax on p rem ium income derived from proper ty insu rance was imposed at the rate of 3 per cent on resident insurers and 6 per cent on nonresident insurers. P rem ium income derived f rom other insurance bus iness was taxed at the rate of 1.5 per cent for resident in su re rs and 3 per cent for nonresident insurers. March 23. The Insu rance Act, Cap. 310 was amended so as to requ i re, in ter alia, that fre ight insurance on goods be ing impor ted in to Barbados would be handled by local ra ther than fore ign firms. Insurance companies in o ther CAR ICOM countries would be treated as local companies. The change has not yet been enforced. April 6. I n f a nt foods, pe tro leum je l ly, and certain Pharmaceu t ica ls were removed f rom the list of items r equ i r ing an impo rt license. April 13. Import duties on a broad range of imported goods o r ig in a t ing ou ts ide the CARICOM area were in- creased th rough the adoption of common external tar iff rates. April 13. Consumption taxes were increased on im i ta- t ion jewe lry, wheeled toys, smok ing pipes, and cigars and were applied to a broad range of imported goods. Excise d u ty on rum was raised f rom BDS$7.32 a proof ga l lon to BDS$9.27 a proof gallon. April 13. Used tires were added to the list of items requ i r ing an import license. April 20. I n f a nt food was removed f rom the list of items requ i r ing an import license. May 18. Sunglasses and f rames for spectacles were added to the list of items requ ir ing an import license. June 15. Unsweetened cocoa powder, chocolate, and other food prepara t ions con ta in ing cocoa, and certain Pharmaceu t ica ls were removed f rom the list of items r equ i r ing an import license. June 22. Yams and certain other root crops, cereal groats and meal, bottles and jars, curtains of bonded fabr ics, welding electrodes, cer ta in canned meats and fish, toma to sauce, certain f ru it and vegetable seeds, oils, and meals, nu ts, refined salt, glues, matches, plastic lami- nates, gold bu l l ion, pa r t ly worked gold and rolled gold, sewing machines, and certain pharmaceuticals were removed f rom the list of items requ ir ing an import license. August 21. Butter, cheese and curd, ravioli, paper and paperboard boxes, bathing t runks, liquefied butane and propane gas, and certain pharmaceuticals were removed f rom the list of items requ ir ing an import license. September 28. Shampoo, j u te sacks, waste and sweep- ings of gold, and gold coins were removed from the list of items requ ir ing an import license. Soaps and organic surface-active products and agents and umbrella parts were added to the list of items requiring an import license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Belgium is the Be lg ian Franc. The cu r rency of Luxembou rg is the Luxembou rg Franc, wh ich in accordance w i th a Luxembou rg decree is at par with the Belgian f r an c. Luxembou rg is l inked to Be lg ium in a mone ta ry association. In Belgium and Luxembou rg there are two separate spot exchange markets, the off ic ial (reglemente) market and the f ree marke t; foreign currency acquired in one market may not be sold in the other. Most cu r rent t ransac t ions are settled in the o f f ic ial ma rke t, access to wh ich is restricted to au thor ized banks. Most cap i tal t ransac t ions take place in the f ree ma rke t. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. Be lg ium and Luxembou rg pa r t ic ipa te together with D enm a rk, the Federal Repub l ic of G e rm any, and the N e t h e r l a n ds in the Eu ropean common m a rg ins arrange- ment ( the s n a k e ), wh ich is a m u l t i p le cu r rency in ter- ven t ion system .1 In accordance w i th th is a r r ang em en t, B e lg ium and Luxembou rg m a i n t a in spot exchange rates of the currenc ies of the other p a r t i c ip an ts w i th in m a rg ins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the c e n t r al rates app l ied in the a r r a n g em e n t. The a r r a n g em e nt imp l ies that the N a t i o n al B ank of Be lg ium s tands ready to buy or sell in the o f f ic ial m a rk et the cu r renc ies of the o ther p a r t i c ip a t ing states in u n l im i t ed amoun ts at specified in te rven t ion rates. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 these rates were Specified I n t e r v e n t i on Ra tes Per: 100 Dan i sh k roner 100 deutsche ma rk 100 N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde rs Belgian or Luxembou rg Franc Upper l im it Lower l im it 569.50 1,607.40 1,483.25 544.45 1,536.65 1,418.00 The p a r t i c i p an ts in the snake are not m a i n t a i n i ng the exchange rates for o ther cu r renc ies w i t h in f ixed l im i ts. However, in order to ensu re a p roper f u n c t i o n i ng of the a r r a n g em e n t, they i n t e r v e ne in concert to smooth out f l u c t u a t i o ns in exchange ra tes, the p r i n c i p al in te rven t ion cu r renc ies b e i ng each other's and the U.S. do l lar. In the o f f i c i al m a r k e t, au tho r ized b a n ks may deal w i th o ther a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks and w i th n o n r e s i d e n ts in any of the conve r t ib le cu r renc ie s .2 Howeve r, a l though 1 W i th e f f e ct f r om M a r ch 13, 1979 B e l g i um and L u x em b o u rg pa r t ic i- p a te in the ex ch ange r a te m e c h a n i sm of the E u r o p e an M o n e t a ry Sys tem. - C u r r e n c i es d e a lt in t he o f f i c i al m a r k et a re A u s t r a l i an do l la r s, Aus- t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, C a n a d i an do l la r s, Dan i sh k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F inn- i sh m a r k k a a, F r en ch f r a n c s, I r i sh p o u n d s, I t a l i an l i re, Japane se y en, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, P o r t u g u e se escudos, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, S o u th A f r i c an r a n d, Sp an i sh pesetas, Swed i sh k r o n e r, Swiss f r a n c s, a nd U.S. do l l a r s; t he A u s t r a l i an do l lar a nd t he Sou th A f r i c an r and a re not o f f i c i a l ly quo ted. (The I r i sh pound has been quo ted on ly s ince M a r ch 13, 1979.) Za i r ian currency ( the za i re) is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the za ire in settlements with coun- t r ies other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zaire for conver t ib le Belgian f rancs or other convertible currencies. Nonb ank residents may not acquire or surrender conver t ib le currencies in the official spot market until a fo re ign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make fo rwa rd purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial ma rket through au thor ized banks, provided t h at any fore ign cu r rency purchased is used for the au thor ized se t t lement of obligations w i th in 15 wo rk ing days f rom delivery (on the delivery date itself if the ma tu r i ty of the fo rwa rd contract is less than 15 day s ); exchange not used w i th in that period must be resold in the o f f ic ial ma rke t. Prof i ts resu l t ing f rom forward con- trac ts not cove r ing au thor ized inward or ou twa rd pay- m en ts th rough the official market must be surrendered to the Treasury. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar in the off ic ial market were BF 28.725 and BF 28.875, respectively, per US$1. In the f ree exchange ma rke t, a ll currenc ies ( inc lud ing domes t ic and fo r e ign b ankno t e s) may be bought and sold at f ree ly fluctuating rates. On December 29, 1978 the f r ee ma rket rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 29.195 b u y i ng and BF 29.385, selling, per US$1. There is no rma l ly no in te rven t ion in fo rwa rd exchange in e i ther exchange ma rke t. Any resident or nonres iden t, i n c l u d i ng bank s, may deal in the f ree marke t. Forward t ran sac t ion s, whe ther by banks or nonbanks, are uncon- t ro l led and do not requ ire a pe rm i t ted under ly ing t ran sac t ion. Be lg ium and Luxembou rg f o rm a l ly accepted the obli- ga t ions of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag r e em en t, as f rom Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembou rg; the two coun t r ies cons t i tu te a single exchange con t rol t e r r i t o ry in re la t ion to other coun tr ies. Administration of Control The u l t im a te re spon s ib i l i ty for the adm in i s t ra t ion of exchange control in the Be lg ian-Luxembourg Economic U n i on is exercised by the Be lgo-L i ixembourg Exchange I n s t i t u te ( IB LC ). Exchange con t rol powers for most p a ym e n ts and t r a n s f e rs a re de lega ted to authorized b a n k s. The Be lgo -Luxembou rg Adm in i s t r a t ive Commis- sion has a u t h o r i ty to l icense t rade t ran sac t ion s; it d e t e rm in es im p o rt and export policy, but has delegated the i s suance of im p o rt and export l icenses to the l i c e n s i ng offices of the BLEU, one of wh ich is located in each coun t ry. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements w i th foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral coun tr ies8 and the convertible area (a ll other coun tr ies). All inward and ou twa rd transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchand ise, transport expenses, indus tr ial expenses (e.g., costs of process ing), and other com- mercial expenses, inc lud ing insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, sub- scriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers (1) adm in is tra t ion expenses, (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and ( 3) repatriation of certain fore ign long-term investments and transfers by em ig ran ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty; List D covers g if ts, l i fe insu rance payments, f am i ly ma in tenance paymen ts, capital investments, liquidation of invest- ments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Bel- gian or Luxembourg na t iona l i ty, transfers by immigrants, inher i tances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agenc ies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the following table: SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or Free Free A,B C D A,B,C,D A,B C D A,B C D NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Official or Free Free | Convertible J or Financial Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Financial Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral Bilateral Convertible Other Any Official or Free Free | Bilateral or J Convertible* Free Bilateral* * Bilateral A c count of the c o u n t ry concerned. Settlements with Za'ire may a l te rna t ive ly be made by debit or credit to Conver t ib le Accoun ts in zaires he ld w i th banks in Za ire. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, ind iv idu al licenses are granted in order to allow t r an s f e rs th rough the o f f ic ial m a rk et for some of the t ransac t ions m e n t i o n ed in List D. These cover essentially direct inv e s tm ent by en terpr ises and some cap i tal t r an s f e rs by ind iv idu a l s. P aym en ts for goods of Egyp t ian o r ig in (o ther t h an rice, raw cotton, and c rude p e t r o l e um) a re sub ject to special ru les. Nonresident Accounts Be lg ian or L u x em b o u rg f r a nc a c coun ts of nonresi- den ts are c lass i f ied as f o l l ow s: :! The b i l a t e r al g r o up c o u n t r i es a re B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and Z a i r e. The BLEU is not a p a r t y, how ev e r, to any b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag reemen t s. 64 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equ iva lent to currenc ies negotiated on the official m a rk e t, and accoun ts may be opened f ree ly in the name of any non re s iden t .4 They are not related to any coun- try or m o n e t a ry area. They may be used free ly for se t t lemen ts w i th res iden ts wh ich e i ther must or may be made th rough the o f f ic ial ma rke t, and for re t rans fer abroad th rough the o f f ic ial m a rk e t, and they may be c red i ted f r e e ly w i th proceeds f rom the sale by a non- res ident of conve r t ib le cu r renc ies in the off ic ial market 4 I n t e r n a t i o n al o r g a n i z a t i o ns and f o r e i gn d ip loma t ic representations e s tab l i shed in the BLEU m a i n t a in Special Accoun t s, wh ich a re equ iva- lent to Conve r t ib le Accoun ts but a re not sub ject to the restrictions app l icab le to the l a t t e r. Fore ign emp loyees of the o rgan iza t ions and r ep r e s en t a t ions m en t ion ed may m a i n t a in Special Conve r t ib le Accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — to au tho r i z ed banks in B e l g i um and Lux embou rg. Bal- ances on Conver t ib le Accoun ts may be t r a n s f e r r ed f ree ly to other Conve r t ib le Accoun ts or be conve r ted in to any cu r r en cy in the o f f i c i al m a rk e t. Adv an c es on Conve r t ib le Accoun ts o ther t h an m a i l - c r e d it advances a re sub ject to au tho r i z a t ion by the IBLC. Conv e r t ib le Accoun ts may be he ld in the f o rm of sight a c coun ts ( d em a nd d e p o s i t s ), p r ior no t ice accoun ts, and t ime depos i ts. 2. Financial Accounts. These accoun ts may be opened o n ly for re s iden ts in conv e r t ib le area coun t r ie s .5 They may be used f r e e ly for se t t lemen ts wh ich e i ther mu st or may be made th rough the f r ee m a r k et and for r e t r a n s f er abroad th rough the f r ee m a r k e t, and they may be c red i ted w i th proceeds f r om the sa le by a non- res ident of gold or any c u r r e n cy in the f r ee m a rk e t. Domes t ic b a n k n o t es and proceeds f r om the sa le in the f ree m a r k et of fo r e ign b a n k n o t e s, when depos i ted w i th au tho r i z ed b a n ks by f o r e i gn t rave le rs in B e lg ium and L u x em b o u rg or by persons r e s i d i ng ab road, may be c red i ted to F i n a n c i al Accoun t s. T r an s f e rs between F i n a n c i al A c coun ts a re f r e e. Ba lances on these accoun ts may be used to pu rcha se gold or any c u r r e n cy nego t ia ted in the f r ee m a rk e t. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for re s iden ts of b i l a t e r al c o u n t r i es (see foo tno te 3 ), and they are re la ted to the c o u n t ry of res idence of the a c count ho lde r. They are used for s e t t l em en ts w i th b i l a t e r al c o u n t r i e s, and may be c red i ted w i th proceeds f r om the sale of conve r t ib le cu r r en c i es by a non res ident in the o f f i c i al m a rk e t. Ba lances on B i l a t e r al Accoun ts may be t ran s fe r red to other B i la te ral Accounts re la ted to the same c o u n t r y. T r a n s f e rs may also be made f r e e ly between B i la te ral Accoun ts re la ted to B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and Za i re. In p rac t ice, the au tho r i t ies perm it the conve rs ion of ba lances on B i l a t e r al Accoun ts of the c en t r al b a n ks of these th ree c o u n t r i es in to fo re ign cu r renc ies in the o f f ic ial ma rke t. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts of Rhodes ian o r ig in are p roh ib i ted. Ind i- v i d u al licenses a re requ i red for (1) a ll impo r ts f rom A l b a n i a, B u l g a r i a, the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democra t ic Republic, Hong Kong, H u n g a r y, J a p a n, No r th Ko rea, Mongo l i a, Po land, R om a n i a, the U.S.S.R., and V iet Na i rn ,0 and (2) a num- ber of impo r ts f r om a ll other coun t r i es ou ts ide the BLEU .7 The commod i t ies for wh i ch i n d i v i d u al licenses a re r equ i r ed i n c l u de m a ny t ex t i le products, cer ta in a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc ts and f o o d s t u f f s, coal and pe tro leum produc ts, and d iamond s. A ll o ther commod i t ies a re f ree of license and q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion; the sole r> Foreign d ip lom a t s, fo re ign n a t i o n a ls employed by d i p l om a t ic repre- sen ta t ions acc red i ted in the BLEU and by spec i f ied i n t e r n a t i o n al o rgan i- za t ions s i t u a t ed in t he BLEU, i n d i v i d u a ls r e s i d i ng in B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, or Z a i r e, and BLEU n a t i o n a ls r e s i d i ng abroad t em p o r a r i ly for profes- sional reasons a re a u t h o r i z ed to m a i n t a in A s s im i la ted R e s id ent Accoun ts. « Im p o rt l icenses are issued f r e e ly for a la rge n um b er of commod i t ies when o r i g i n a t i ng in and sh ipped f r om B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an D emo c r a t ic R epub l i c, H u n g a r y, Po land, R om a n i a, and U .S .S .R. 7 Most im p o r ts in the l a t t er g roup do not r e q u i re an impo rt license when impo r t ed f r om the N e t h e r l a n ds or f r om o ther EEC coun t r ies. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG r e q u i r em e nt is a f o rm comp le ted by the impo r t er g iv ing n o t i f i c a t i on of the p a ym e nt ( p a ym e nt d e c l a r a t i o n ), wh i ch mu st be presen ted to an au tho r ized b ank. Many c omm o d i t i es sub j e ct to i n d i v i d u al l icen s ing a re also adm i t t ed w i t h o ut q u a n t i t a t i ve res t r ic t ion. A long w i th o th er EEC coun t r i e s, the BLEU app l ies to non-EEC c o u n t r i es quo t as on a n um b er of tex t i le p roduc ts and on Greek w i n e; the BLEU also app l ies a system of m i n im um impo rt prices to fo r e ign steel produc ts. Impo r ts f r om non-EEC coun t r ies of most products covered by the Common A g r i c u l t u r al Policy of the EEC are sub ject to impo rt levies wh ich have rep laced a ll p r ev ious b a r r i e rs to im p o r t s; common EEC regu la t ions are also app l ied to impo r ts f r om non-EEC coun t r ies of most o ther a g r i c u l t u r al and livestock produc ts. No exchange con t rol d o c um e n t a t i on is requ i red for im p o r ts not exceed ing BF 50,000 in v a lu e. The au tho r- ized b ank is r e q u i r ed to make ce r ta in that payment is made by one of the m e thods la id down in the regu la t ions (see sec t ion on P r e s c r ip t ion of Cu r rency, above) and t h at f o r e i gn exchange is not a cqu i r ed u n t il the impo rt p a ym e nt is due; for all p a ym e n ts in excess of BF 50,000 the b ank r e q u i r es d o c um e n t a ry proof of the due date. Exchange con t rol app rov al is also requ i red for paymen ts for im p o r ts mo re t h an th r ee m o n t hs be fo re or s ix mon ths a f t er the da te of cus toms c lea rance; p r ior ex am in a t ion of suppo r t ing d o c um e n ts by the IBLC is requ i red for pay- men ts exceed ing BF 10 m i l l ion and for p aym en ts made mo re t h an 30 days b e fo re the da te of cus toms c learance. However, in the l a t t er case, prior e x am i n a t i on is not r equ i r ed if p aym ent takes place e i ther und er a documen- t a ry c red it or on a d o c um e n t a ry co l lec t ion basis, pro- v ided that documen ts are subm i t ted to the au thor ized bank show ing that the goods have a lready been shipped to the BLEU. P aym en ts for t r an s it t ran sac t ions mu st be made not la ter th an th ree mon ths f r om the date of any advance p a ym e nt collected f r om the fore ign buyer, and may not be m ade ea r l ier th an th ree mon ths before the da te on wh ich such p aym ent is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts to conve r t ib le area coun t r ies for t ransac t ions i n c l u d ed in Lists A and B mu st be made through the o f f ic ial exchange m a rk et or by c red i t ing Belgian or Lux- embou rg f r a n cs to a Conve r t ib le Accoun t. Suppo r t ing do cum en ts must be presen ted to an au tho r ized bank for all p aym e n ts in excess of BF 50,000; for paymen ts exceed ing BF 10 m i l l ion and in other exceptional cases, p r ior ex am in a t ion of the suppo r t ing documen ts by the IBLC is requ ired. Paymen ts to convertible area coun- tr ies for items in List C may be made through either the o f f ic ial ma rket ( a l t e rn a t iv e ly, by c red i t ing Belgian or Lux embou rg f r an cs to a Conve r t ib le A c c o u n t ), or the f r ee m a rk et (a l te rna t ive ly, by c red i t ing Belgian or Luxembou rg f r an cs to a F inanc ial Accoun t, or in foreign or domes t ic b a n k n o t e s ); paymen ts for items in List D mu st be made th rough the f ree ma rket (a l te rna t ive ly, by 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG c red i t ing Belgian or Luxembou rg f rancs to a F inanc ial Accoun t, or in fo re ign or domestic b ankno t e s ); paymen ts to b i la te ral countries (see foo tno te 3) must be made by c red i t ing Be lg ian or Luxembou rg f r an cs to a B i la teral Account related to the coun try concerned; paymen ts to Za i re, however, may also be made in za ires through a conver t ib le account in Za ire. Foreign and domestic bankno tes may be exported f ree ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted in accordance w i th the re levant Reso lu t ions of the UN Security Coun- cil. I n d i v i d u al licenses are requ i red for specified exports to all countries outside the BLEU.8 All other exports are f ree of license; on ly a fo rm completed by the expo r ter and g iv ing no t i f ica t ion of the export is requ i red. Exchange con trol d o c um e n t a t i on is not requ ired for exports of less t h an BF 50,000 in va lue. The au tho r ized bank is requ ired to v e r i fy that export proceeds are received in accordance w i th the regu la t ions (see section on Prescription of Currency, abov e ). Special au thor iza- t ion is requ i red to collect export proceeds more than six mon ths a f t er the da te of expo r ta t ion. Export proceeds in conver t ib le currencies must be surrendered to an au tho r ized bank ( i .e ., sold in the off ic ial exchange mar- k e t) w i t h in eight days of receipt, or, a l te rna t ive ly, they may be deposited in a Controlled Res ident Account in Foreign Currency w i th an au tho r ized b ank if they are to be used la ter for cu r r ent paymen ts au tho r ized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export pro- ceeds more th an three mon ths before the expected date of exportation requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the IBLC. Proceeds f rom t rans it t r an s a c t ions must be collected w i th in three mon ths f rom the date of payment to the fo re ign supplier. Prior ex am in a t ion of suppor t ing docu- men ts by the IBLC is requ ired for receipts exceeding BF 10 m i l l ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in conver t ib le currencies f rom invisibles connected w i th commerc ial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t) w i th in eight days of receipt, or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an au thor ized bank if they are to be used later for authorized cu r rent payments. Prior examina- tion of suppo r t ing documen ts by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies f rom trans- actions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the f ree marke t. Receipts f rom other trans- actions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds f rom transactions included in Lists C and D may also be 8 Most exports do not requ i re an export license when exported to the Ne the r lands or to o ther EEC countries. 66 collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All cap i tal transac t ions w i th convertible area countries may be carr ied out through the free marke t, by settle- m e nt in Be lg ian or Luxembou rg francs through the F inanc ial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or fo re ign bankno tes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital t ran s fe rs by ind iv idua ls, including gifts, f am i ly m a in t en an ce paymen ts, remittances by emigrants of Be lg ian or Luxembou rg n a t ion a l i ty, and inheritances, but not t ran sac t ions of a financial na tu re, may also be made th rough the off ic ial ma rke t, subject to ind iv idual license. The exchange con trol au thor i t ies may guarantee the r e p a t r i a t i on of approved fore ign investments made in Be lg ium and Luxembourg. In that case, cap i tal brought in th rough the o f f ic ial ma rket (under special license and as an excep t ion to the s tanda rd prescription of currency set out above) may be repa t r ia ted th rough that market. Also eligible for ou tward t rans fer through the official m a rk et are the amo r t iza t ion and redemp t ion proceeds of bonds denom ina ted in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by res iden ts of conve r t ib le area coun tr ies, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the m a t u r i ty da te. All t ransac t ions in securities by res iden ts or non res iden ts are free, but the financial se t t lement of such transac t ions must conform to the general regu la t ions for cap i tal transactions. The prior approval of the M in is try of F inance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital ma rket by nonres iden ts; most of the Belgian f r anc bond issues on the domestic capital ma rket have in practice been made by in te rna t ional o rgan iza t ions, wh i le issues of Eurobonds denom ina ted in Belgian f rancs are not normally per- m i t ted. The Luxembourg authorities have, f rom time to t ime, perm i t ted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxem- bourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies or ind iv idua ls for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward paymen ts for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires; inward paymen ts for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market, or, in the case of Zai're, in zaires. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in coin or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these fo rms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (o ther than paymen ts for semiprocessed gold imported ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by professional users) may be made on ly th rough the f ree ma rke t, th rough F inanc ial Accoun ts in Be lg ian or Luxembou rg f ranc s, or in domestic or fo re ign bankno tes. No customs du t ies or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except impo r ts for i n d u s t r i al or hand i- c ra ft purposes. Licenses are requ i red for impo r ts of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to profess ional users, who have to make payment t h r o u gh the official m a rk e t. Transactions in mone ta ry gold are exempt f rom value-added tax. Changes during 1978 January 1. At the same t ime as o ther EEC coun tr ies, Be lg ium and Luxembou rg imp lemen ted a price control system for impo r ts of ce r ta in steel produc ts. The con trol was cen tered a round "base prices" de te rm ined by the EEC Commission w i th reference to the lowest no rmal prices in the supp ly ing coun t ry or coun tr ies under nor- mal compe t i t ive cond i t ions, ad jus ted to a l low for the costs of t ran spo r ta t ion, in su rance, and en t ry du t ie s. In comp l iance w i th the GATT and f o l l ow i ng com- p l a i n ts f rom one or more m emb er states, Be lg ium and Luxembou rg, w i th the o ther EEC coun t r i e s, subsequen t ly charged the a n t i d um p i ng d u t i es i n t r o d u c ed by the EEC Comm iss ion. The am o u nt of these d u t i es was equal to the d i f f e r e n ce between the "base price" and the c.i.f. f ree -EEC - f ron t ier price ind ica ted by the expo r ter ( a d j u s t ed on account of en t ry d u t i e s ). The Comm iss ion also set m i n im um prices and re fe rence prices for pro- duce rs in the C omm u n i ty to i n c l u de in t h e ir price schedu le. In 1978 the Comm i s s ion conc luded b i l a t e r al agree- m en ts w i th 15 coun t r i es on v o l u n t a ry expo rt res t ra in t. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG The aim of these agreements was to ma in ta in traditional flows of trade. The countries concerned were allowed to charge prices that were ma rg ina l ly below the effective prices derived f rom the schedules of EEC producers. The m a rg in was 3 per cent for EFTA countries and from 4 to 6 per cent for other countries, depending on whe ther special steels or o rd ina ry steels were involved. March 31. In order to restore u n i f o rm i ty w i th Belgian exchange con trol laws, Luxembourg adopted a law enab l ing the IBLC to take a number of measures against specu la t ive capital movements; a similar legal provision was already in force in Belgium. The principal effect was that the IBLC was given powers to issue manda tory regu la t ions l im i t i ng or p roh ib i t ing the payment of inter- est on nonres iden t-owned deposits and claims; to limit the am o u nt of nonresidents' claims and deposits in Bel- g ian f r an c s; to prescribe the deposit of certain f u n ds in non in te res t -bea r ing blocked accounts; and to impose, by gove rnment decree, a negative interest charge, payable in advance, on cer ta in nonresident-owned fund s. In add i t ion, the IBLC was empowerd to ob ta in in fo rma t ion on all fo r e ign assets and l iab i l i t ies, on a daily basis, f r om b anks and a ll o ther economic agents. A def in i t ion of res idence was also provided. November 30. The exemp t ion f rom va lue-added tax of t r a n s a c t i o ns in mon e t a ry gold, a l ready in effect in B e l g i um, was ex tended to Luxembou rg. December 1. The t empo r a ry a r rangement whereby d i amond t ran sac t ions were to be hand led through the f r ee m a r k et was ex tended for a f u r t h er year. December 11. Following Norway's decision to with- d r aw f rom the European common marg ins arrangement w i th e f fect f r om December 12, the BLEU would no longer m a i n t a in ma rg ins vis-a-vis the No rweg ian krone. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 wh ich is pegged to the French f ranc, the in terven t ion cu r rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f r a nc and the CFA f r a n c. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for t rans- fers f rom coun tr ies outside the West A f r ican Mone ta ry Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill for t rans fe rs to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on t ran s fe rs to all countries outside the West Afr ican Mone tary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Ben in's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun tr ies whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made f ree ly. All other countries, except Benin i tse lf, are considered for- eign countries, but for purposes of cer ta in cap i tal con- trols, the countries specified in th is pa rag raph are also regarded as fore ign countries. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Directorate of Ex te rnal Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. The M in i s t ry of F inance, however, has the ma in re spon s ib i l i ty for d r aw i ng up the exchange control regu la t ions. The BCEAO is au tho r ized to col- lect, e i ther directly or th rough bank s, financial in s t i tu- tions, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and no ta r ies pub l ic, any in fo rm a t ion necessary to comp i le b a l an ce of pay- men ts statistics. A ll exchange t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun tr ies must be carried out by au thor ized in termed iar ies. Import licenses are issued by the Direc- to ra te of Ex te rnal Commerce. Exports of d iamonds and other precious or sem iprec ious m a t e r i a ls r e q u i re p r ior app roval in the fo rm of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Since B e n in is an Ope ra t ions A c c o u nt c o u n t r y, settle- m e n ts w i th F rance ( as d e f i n ed a b o v e ), Monaco, and the 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the B a n q ue C en t r a le des E t a ts de 1 'A f r i q ue de 1'Ouest (BC EAO) and is the common c u r r e n cy in B en in, Ivo ry Coast, N ig e r, Senega l, Togo, and U p p er Vo l t a. - T r a n s f e rs be tween member c o u n t r i es of the Un ion are sub ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 lev ied on s e t t l em e n ts be tween agenc ies of the BCEAO. 68 Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French f ranc s, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Current payments to or from The G amb i a, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r i c an Clearing House. Settlements with all other coun t r ies are usually effected through correspond- ent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun t r ies, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Cer ta in settlements with the People's Republic of Ch ina, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non re s ident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank- notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an au thor ized bank's fore ign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter w i th an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, w i th the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermedi- aries to their fore ign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts originating in or proceeding f rom Rhode- sia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited f rom all sources. The Societe Na t iona le d'Importation du Benin (SONIB) has a monopo ly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and khaki cloth. Cer ta in other agencies, such as the Societe Ben ino ise pour le Developpement des Ressources An ima les (SODERA), have an import monop- oly for other specified commodities. Imports of all o ther goods or ig ina t ing in coun tr ies in the fo rmer French Franc Area may be made f ree ly w i thout an impo rt license. Impo r ts of all other goods o r ig ina t ing in EEC coun t r ies other t h an France may also be made f r e e ly; these goods require a license, wh ich is issued au toma t ica l ly. Certain impo r ts are liberalized when or ig ina t ing in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certifi- cate made out by the importer himself. Imports of non l ibe ra l ized commod i t ies o r ig ina t ing in OECD coun- tries, all impor ts o r ig ina t ing in Japan, and all imports o r ig in a t ing in non-OECD coun tr ies are subject to licens- a There is an inope ra t ive paymen ts agreement w i th Hunga ry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing; they are adm i t ted in accordance with an annual import program. Under this program, a global quo ta is established for imports f r om all coun tr ies outside the fo rmer French Franc Area except EEC countries. Cer- ta in French tex t i les processed in fo re ign coun tr ies are licensed separately. A ll imports o r ig ina t ing in fo re ign coun t r ies, when va lued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank. The impo rt licenses or impo rt certificates en t i t le impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days be fo re ship- ment if a documen ta ry cred it is opened, or one mon th be fo re the payment is due if the commod i t ies have a lready been impor ted. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are p roh ib- i ted. Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies are pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun t r ies are sub ject to the approval of the Directorate of Ex ternal Com- merce, but for many types of inv is ib les the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to au thor ized banks. Au tho r ized banks and the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on have been empowered to make paymen ts abroad freely on behalf of res iden ts, up to CFAF 50,000 a t ran s fe r. Pay- ments for inv is ib les re la ted to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic t rade transac t ion has been approved or does not r equ i re au tho r iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonres iden ts in the fo rm of prof i ts, dividends, and roya l t ies are also perm i t ted. For tou r i st trave l, residents trave l ing to countries other than France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a t r ip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ld ren und er ten) for any number of tr ips a year; any fo re ign exchange in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing a f ter re tu rn to Benin must be su r rende red. For business trave l, there is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, sub ject to a m a x im um of CFAF 400,000 a t r ip. The t ran s fer of the en t i re net salary of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Benin is permitted upon p resen ta t ion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Travelers to fore ign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes issued by other Ope ra t ions Account countries. Resident travelers to coun t r ies of the fo rmer French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r ican Mone tary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized fore ign bankno tes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en try, subject to ad ju s tm ent for amoun ts BENIN exchanged for CFA f rancs or obtained by exchange of fo re ign currency. Nonres ident trave lers may take out f r e e ly the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French bankno tes, or bankno tes issued by the Opera t ions Account countries; a m ax imum amount equ iva lent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bankno tes; and any amount in other fo re ign means of payment (travel- ers checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Exports to all foreign coun tr ies must be domi- ciled w i th an au tho r ized bank when valued at more t h an CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and d iamond s, are f ree of license, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Com- merce. The due date for payment for exports to fo r e ign coun t r ies may not be later t h an 180 days a f ter the a r r ival of the commodities at their des t ina t ion. The pro- ceeds must be collected and currencies other than those of the fo rmer French Franc Area must be sold on the exchange ma rke t, w i t h in two mon ths of the due date. P r ior au tho r iza t ion is requ ired for the retention, sale, impo r t, or export of raw d iamonds and of precious and sem iprec ious ma ter ia ls. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France (as de f ined above) Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets, must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coin (except gold coin) of countries ou ts ide the former French Franc Area; residents b r ing ing in fore ign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon en try and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital T ran s fe rs of capital between Benin and Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Com- merce and Tourism. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, how- ever, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ben in requ i re prior authorization by the M in is ter of Commerce and Tourism.4 Foreign direct investments in Ben in 5 must be declared to the M in is ter before they are made. The Minister may request the pos tponement of the opera- tion, w i th in a period of two months. The f u ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of either type of inves tment also requires declaration. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whe ther these are Beninese investments abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in Benin, must be reported to the M in i s ter and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus tr ial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the to tal amount out- * Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 70 s tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Commerce and Tourism if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special au thor iza t ion. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferen t ial status that may be granted to fo re ign and domestic investments in indus try, m in ing, fisheries, agr icu l ture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is in tended for medium-sized inves tmen ts and provides for exemp t ion, du r ing a period of up to 5 years, from import du t ies and taxes on ma te r ia ls neces- sary for the p roduc t ion of the proposed item, and f rom cer ta in other taxa t ion. Plan B, for larger projects, is gran ted for a max imum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benef i ts of Plan A, cer ta in other tax privileges. P lan C is intended for enterprises unde r tak ing to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is gran ted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guaran tees stability of tax s ta tus, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advan tages. P lan D provides cer ta in benefits for Beninese en t rep reneu rs investing at least CFAF 10 mil- lion. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of Janua ry 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Ben in. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the M in- ister of Commerce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the M in is ter. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 February 9. A new customs tar iff applicable to all imported goods was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bo l iv ia is the Bo l iv ian Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. do l lar, the in t e rv en t ion currency, at $b 20 = US$1. The off ic ial b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar are $b 20.00 and $b 20.02, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other cu r renc ies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quo ted, w i th d a i ly quota- tions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. Sales of fore ign exchange by the commerc ial banks and exchange houses are subject to an exchange tax of 1.6 per cent and a s tamp tax of 0.2 per cent, and in add i t ion, the selling ra te is subject to a bank ing commission of 0.1 per cent. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses is $b 20.40 per US$1. Bolivia fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom June 5, 1967. Administration of Control the Na t ional Council for P lann ing and Economy and to control by the Financing Ins t i tu te ( INDEF ). Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 25 per cent ad va lo rem, which must be lodged 120 days prior to the an t ic ipa ted release f rom customs. Most p r iva te sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are sub ject to an "additional tax," to an import surcharge of 3 per cent, and to an 8 per cent tax on services rendered. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely. Residents of Bo l iv ian or fore ign na t iona l i ty must pay a travel tax when leav ing the coun t ry. The tax is $b 200 for air t ravel to ne ighbor ing coun tr ies, $b 100 for overland t ravel to such coun tr ies, $b 450 for air travel to other La t in Ame r ican countries, and $b 600 for air travel to coun t r ies outside La t in Amer ica. The exchange control system is adm in is te red by the Cen tral Bank of Bolivia. Exports and Export Proceeds Prescription of Currency There are no p resc r ip t ion of cu r r en cy requ iremen ts. Se t t lemen ts are u su a l ly made in U.S. do l la rs or other conve r t ib le cu r renc ies. Paymen ts between Bolivia and A rg en t in a, Braz i l, Chile, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Mexico, Pa raguay, Pe ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezue la may be made th rough accoun ts m a i n t a i n ed w i th each other by the cen t ral b anks w i t h in the f r am ew o rk of the m u l t i l a t e r al compensa t ion agreement of the La t in Ame r ican Free Trade Association. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts by pub l ic sector agencies requ i re the prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and Com- merce; these agencies are not pe rm i t ted to impo rt com- mod i t ies that a re av a i l ab le in Bo l iv ia. P r iva te impor ts of ce r ta in commod i t ies also r equ i re p r ior au tho r i z a t ion; these inc lude l ive ca t t le, v a r ious f o o d s t u f f s, specified mo tor veh ic les, and p e t r o l e um and p e t r o l e um p roduc ts. The im p o rt of goods wh ich are p roduced loca l ly is p roh ib i t ed, in p a r t i c u l ar a r t ic les of c l o t h i ng and de ter- gen ts. A ll o th er goods may be im p o r t ed f r e e l y. Exchange to pay for impo r ts may be pu rchased f r om comme rc ial b a n k s. Most f o r e i gn c red i ts, i n c l u d i ng o f f i c i a l ly g u a r a n- teed supp l i e r s' cred i ts, are sub ject to a u t h o r i z a t i on by 1 A r g e n t i ne pesos, B e lg i an f r a n c s, B r a z i l i an c r u z e i r o s, C a n a d i an dol- la r s, C h i l e an pesos, D an i sh k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F r en ch f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J ap an e se y en, M e x i c an pesos, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, P e r u- v i an soles, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, Span i sh pesetas, Swedish k r o n o r, and Swiss f r a n c s. Exports are not no rma l ly subject to licensing, although ce r ta in exports may be proh ib i ted or restricted f rom t ime to t ime ow ing to domestic demand and supply fac to r s. All proceeds f rom expor ts of the public and p r iv a te sectors mu st be sold to the Cen tral Bank within 15 days of rece ip t, w i th the exception of reasonable am o u n ts deduc ted for fore ign exchange expenditures u n d e r t a k en to e f fect the expo r t. As regards minerals, COM IBOL and the med ium -s ized m ines export their own p rodu c t ion, and the M i n i ng Bank that of the small mines of the p r iva te sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange ma rke t. Capital Ou tw a rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs by residents or nonres iden ts are f r ee of con t rol and may be made f r e e ly; inwa rd c a p i t al t r a n s f e rs also may be made f r e e ly, but govern- m e nt rece ip ts of t r a n s f e rs and g ran ts and a ll proceeds of b o r r ow i n gs f r om f o r e i gn pub l ic sector agencies mu st be s u r r e n d e r ed to the C en t r al B a n k. A ll fo re ign credits, i n c l u d i ng supp l i e r s' credits, to gove rnment agencies and a u t o n om o us en t i t i e s, and c red i ts to the pr iva te sector w i th o f f i c i al g u a r a n t e e s, a re sub ject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the N a t i o n al Counc il for P l a n n i ng and Economy and to con t rol by the F i n a n c i ng In s t i tu t e. Most fore ign l o a ns m u st be reg is te red w i th the N a t ion al Inves tment I n s t i t u t e. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the Na t ional Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and m i n i ng are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the M in ing Code. Cer ta in fo re ign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Car- tagena Agreement. Gold Impo r ts and exports of gold and domestic trad ing in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central B a nk also purchases, for its use or for export in the fo rm of gold bars, the to tal national production of gold. W i thout a f f e c t ing these powers of the Central Bank, the M in ing Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unwo rked fo rm, the ou tput of gold, silver, and p la t inum. The M in ing Bank also sells gold, silver, and p la t inum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it estab- lishes jo in t ly w i th the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requ i remen ts of gold f r om the M in ing Bank. Cooperatives and other pro- ducers mu st sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified q u a n t i ty of gold annu a l ly to domestic jewelers and den t is ts and is obliged to sell the rema inder to the Central Bank. Residents may f ree ly purchase, re ta in, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1978 January 5. The advance deposit requ iremen ts were waived for imports covered under Decisions Nos. 2 8 ( 1 0 8 ), 29, and 57 of the Andean Pact (Circular No. 013-78). January 25. The impo rt prohibition on liquors, l iqueurs, and other spirits was removed but it was re ta ined for impo r ts derived f rom grapes and abs in the (Sup reme Decree No. 15272). January 27. Imports of acrylic fiber threads became subject to a specific du ty of $b 0.35 a kilogram and to prior authorization (Supreme Decree No. 15273). March 7. Exports of certain minerals, such as an t imony, zinc, and lead, were temporarily exempted f rom export taxes (Supreme Decree No. 15343). April 28. The taxes on all foreign travel were raised and a new tax was levied on all purchases of air tickets (Supreme Decree No. 15437). June 2. Under a new law on insurance companies op e r a t ing in Bolivia, only domestic insurance firms or au tho r ized foreign firms were perm i t ted to underwr i te insu rance policies for exporters shipping on a c.i.f. basis f r om Bolivia or for Bolivian importers buying goods f.o.b. (Decree-Law No. 15516). June 22. Customs ta r i ff rates were adjusted on impo r ts of electrostatic paper, textiles, glass, iron and steel cas t ings, and mach inery and spare parts for vehicles other than passenger automobiles. Imports of a i r c r a ft and parts rema ined exempt f rom the 3 per cent impo rt surcharge. Imports of dry electric batteries and wood f u r n i t u re were no longer prohibited (Supreme Decree No. 15568). June 29. Imports of some types of motor vehicles were prohibited. Import of vehicles for assembly became sub ject to prior licensing (Supreme Decree No. 15606). August 11. A ceiling was set on the external short- te rm indebtedness of Bolivian and foreign banks and financial ins t i tu t ions at the level of utilization of credits and loans as at June 30, 1978. A 3 per cent tax was imposed on the use of all short-term and medium-term ex ternal financing (Supreme Decree No. 15719). October 79. A new law (Ley de Represion de Contra- bando) designed to coun te ract the flow of contraband t rade in Bo l iv ia was passed (Decree-Law No. 15896). December 7. It was announced that por t land cement could be impor ted free ly un t il February 28, 1979. Such impo r ts would be exempted f rom the 25 per cent advance deposit requ i rement (Supreme Decree No. 15990). 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Bo t sw ana is the Bo tswana Pu la, which is pegged to the U.S. do l l a r, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, at P 1 = US$1.2075. At present, the B a nk of B o t sw a na ( t he c en t r al b a n k) quo tes b u y i ng and s e l l ing m a r g i ns of 0.125 per cent (US$0 .0015) a round th is m i d d le ra te, a l though Bo- t swana ava i ls i tse lf of w id er m a r g i ns of 2.25 per cent. On December 31, 1978 the o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l l ar were P 0.8271 and P 0.8292, respec t ive ly, per US$1. Ex ch ange ra tes for c e r t a in other cu r renc ie s1 are quo ted on the basis of t h e ir rates against the U.S. do l lar in in t e rn a t ion al ma rke ts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is app l i c ab le to t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th a ll countries. The M i n i s t er of F i n a n ce and Development P l a n n i ng has de lega ted most of the a dm i n i s t r a t i on of ex ch ange con t rol to the Bank of Bo t swana. The l a t t e r, in tu rn, has delegated c e r t a in powers to b anks appo in ted as au tho r ized dealers. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to or f rom res iden ts of fo re ign countries mu st n o rm a l ly be made or received in a fo re ign currency or th rough a non re s iden t -he ld pula account in Bo tswana. There are no b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreemen ts. Imports and Import Payments Bo tswana is a member of a cus toms u n i on w i th Leso- tho, South A f r i c a, and Swaz i land, and there are gen- erally no impo rt res tr ic t ions on goods mov ing between the four coun t r ies. Impo rt pe rm i ts a re requ i red, how- ever, for most goods impo r ted in to Bo tswana f rom ou ts ide the cus toms u n i o n. C e r t a in impor ted goods, i n c l u d i ng f i r e a rm s, a m m u n i t i o n, fresh mea t, a nd hor t i- 1 Deu t sche m a r k, Sou th A f r i c an r a n d, and p o u n ds s te r l ing. c u l t u r al produc ts, requ i re pe rm i t s, regardless of the c o u n t ry of supp ly. Goods of domes t ic or ig in may move f r e e ly be tween Bo tswana, Ma law i, and Rhodesia by v i r t ue of a cus toms ag reement of 1956, provided they are not in t end ed for re-export; impo r ts of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and c igare t tes are not pe rm i t ted. Exports and Export Proceeds Ce r ta in expo r ts are sub ject to l icens ing, ma in ly for r ev enue reasons. Proceeds f rom exports must be rece ived in a fo re ign cu r r en cy. For a few items, such as p rec ious and sem ip rec ious stones, pe rm i ts a re requ i red b e fo re export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts to non res iden ts for cu r rent transactions, wh i le sub ject to con t ro l, are not restricted. Authority to app rove some types of cu r r ent paymen ts is delegated to comm e r c i al banks up to established l im i ts —such as the bas ic exchange a l lowance for tou r i st t rave l, wh ich is the e q u i v a l e nt of P 2,000 in a c a l e n d ar year for an adu lt and P 800 for a ch i ld. Travelers may f ree ly b r ing in any amount of domes t ic bankno tes and coin, and take out P 50 in such bankno tes and coin. Capital App l ica t ions for ou twa rd t r a n s f e rs of capital are decided acco rd ing to the ir me r i t s, but are generally g r an t ed favo rab le cons ide ra t ion. The ru l ings on applica- t ions for inw a rd and ou twa rd c ap i t al t rans fe rs may depend on whe ther the app l icant is tempo ra r i ly a resi- dent fo r e ign n a t ion a l, a non res iden t, or a resident. Changes during 1978 March 3. Res iden ts were given permission to hold fo re ign cu r rency up to the equ iva lent of P 100 a person. T empo r a ry residents might hold up to P 200 a person. March 29. The common impo rt surcharge levied by the customs un ion was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 12.5 per cent. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Braz il is the B r a z i l i an C ruze i ro. Since Augu st 1968 Braz il has followed a f lex ib le exchange ra te policy by wh ich the exchange rate for the c ruze i ro is ad ju s ted at re la t ive ly short in te rva ls in te rms of its i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency, the U.S. do l lar. These a d j u s tm e n ts take in to account (1) the movement in pr ices in Brazil re la t ive to t h at in i ts ma in t r a d i ng pa r tne rs, (2) the level of fo re ign exchange reserves, (3) export p e r f o rm a n c e, and (4) the overa ll balance of paymen ts position.1 Exchange t ransac t ions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Braz i l, the au tho r ized banks, and the exchange houses. The exchange houses deal only in bankno tes and t rave le rs checks in a "manual market .'* Un i fo rm i ty between the ra tes quo ted by the mone tary au tho r i t ies and the e f fec t ive ra tes of the au thor ized banks is ensured by the practice of the mone tary au thor i t ies of s tand ing ready to purchase exchange f rom the b anks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved t ransac t ions. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and selling ra tes quoted by the mone ta ry authori- ties to the pub l ic were Cr$20.78 and Cr$20.92, respec- tively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for se t t lemen ts w i th b i l a t e r al ag reement coun tr ies. Ra tes for o ther currenc ies are based on the U.S. do l lar ra tes in B raz il and the rates for the currencies concerned in New York and Europe. W i th specified exceptions, fore ign exchange transac t ions are sub ject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in e f fec t ive rates w i th in 1 per cent on e i ther side of the rates of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies. On the buy ing side, other effec t ive rates result f rom the fo l low ing arrangemen ts: (1) the Na t ional Mone ta ry Council can apply an export tax at the rate of 10 per cent; th is ra te can be lowered or be raised up to 40 per cent; (2) special regu la t ions apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); ( 3) a 10 per cent levy ("contribution quo ta") is applied on proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products, except for those in respect of exports of sweetened cocoa powder con ta in ing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw material, for which the contribution quota is 5 per cent; (4) a con tr ibu t ion quo ta of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of rawhides of wild an ima ls, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds f rom tanned or processed hides of wild animals; and (5) a contribution quota of 20-40 per cent, va ry ing 1 On J a n u a ry 24, 1979 the Braz i l ian au tho r i t ies announced the ir in ten- t ion to speed up the ra te of dep rec ia t ion by an add i t ional 4.5 per cent on a 12-month basis, as a means of o f f se t t ing a simultaneously an- nounced phasing-out of fiscal incentives for exports, as well as the prior import deposit requ i remen t, by mid-1983. 74 is applied from to proceeds according to quality, exports of quar tz chips. On the selling side, a d i f fe rent effective rate arises f rom the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see sec t ion on Paymen ts for Invisibles, below), which speci- fies that the sum of net profits and dividends effectively rem i t ted to persons and compan ies resident abroad is sub ject to a supp lemen ta ry income tax when the aver- age of ac tual rem i t tances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvest- ment. The Bank of Braz i l, acting on its own behalf or on beha lf of the Cen tral Bank, carries out a considerable p ropo r t ion of all exchange t ransac t ions, inc lud ing those of all pub l ic sector agencies. The Bank of Braz il sells fo r e ign exchange for the requ i remen ts of the Govern- ment at the exchange ra te p reva i l ing on the date the t ran sac t ion is made. Exchange transac t ions in the cu r renc ies of b i la te ral p a r tn er countries are handled by the authorized banks, which settle them with the Cen t ral Bank. Global l im i ts are f ixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in fore ign exchange. For the bought position the l im it is US$500,000 for each bank. The l im it on the sold position is fixed in relation to the cap i tal and unencumbe red reserves of each bank; a bank h av ing cap i tal and unencumbe red reserves of up to Cr$150 m i l l ion may m a in t a in a sold position of up to US$500,000; over and above that amount a bank is allowed an overall sold position of up to US$5 million. Banks au thor ized to operate exclusively in the "manual ma rke t" and exchange houses are permitted to ma in ta in a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each author- ized branch, but may not ma in ta in a sold position. The Cen tral Bank and the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supply fore ign exchange to au thor ized banks in amoun ts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers du r ing the same day or in the previous day; inc luded in this limit is their "manual market" position (bankno tes and travelers checks). The banks are per- m i t ted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; trans- fers between branches of the same bank in d ifferent t rad ing centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In add i t ion, exchange transactions are pe rm i t ted between banks in Rio de Jane iro and banks in Sao Paulo; such transactions may be carried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a forward basis and must be executed w i th in 2 working days for spot transactions, or not later than a f ter 180 days for forward transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control The Na t ional Mone ta ry Council is responsible for the f o rm u l a t i on of overall fore ign exchange policy. In accordance w i th the gu ide l ines established by the Coun c i l, exchange control is operated by the Cen t ral Bank's Exchange Depar tment ( D E C A M ), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Depart- ment for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital ( F I R C E ); the la t ter processes the registration of fore ign cap i tal for the purpose of its repatriation and of the rem i t tance of income therefrom. Certain borrowing abroad requ i res the prior approval of the in te rm in i s te r ial Foreign Loans Commission ( C EM P E X ). The Na t ional Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX ), established w i th in the M in is try of Indus try and Com- merce, fo rmu l a t es foreign trade policy. The M in is try of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions w i th in Brazil. CACEX issues export and impo rt certificates (guias de exportaqao and guias de importagao). CACEX also is in charge of app rov ing impo rt f i n a n c i ng w i th terms of up to 360 days. Coffee expo r ts are regu la ted by the B r a z i l i an Coffee I n s t i t u te (IBC). The Cus toms Policy Counc il (CPA), e s t ab l i sh ed w i t h in the M i n i s t ry of F inance, is responsible for f o rm u l a t i ng gu ide l ines for ta r i ff policy. The CPA also dec ides on changes in customs du t ies und er the p rov i s ions of ex i s t ing leg is la t ion. The impo rt policy of the p u b l ic sector is coo rd ina ted by the B raz i l ian Foreign Trade Comm i t tee (CBI). Prescription of Currency P resc r ip t ion of cu r rency is in pr inc ip le related to the c o u n t ry of o r i g in of impo r ts or the coun t ry of final d e s t i n a t i on of expor ts, un less otherwise prescribed or au tho r ized. Se t t lemen ts w i th b i la te ral paymen ts agree- ment coun t r i e s2 a re made in c lea r ing dollars th rough the r e l ev ant agreement accoun t. Paymen ts between B raz il and A rg en t i n a, Bo l iv ia, Ch i le, Colombia, the D om i n i c an R e p u b l i c, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezue la m u st be made th rough accoun ts ma in- t a i n ed w i th each o ther by the Cen t ral Bank of B raz il and the other cen tral banks concerned, w i th in the f rame- wo rk of the m u l t i l a t e r al c l e a r ing system of the La t in Am e r i c an Free Trade Assoc ia t ion (LAFTA). Imports and Import Payments The im p o rt of commod i t ies o r i g i n a t i ng in or sh ipped f r om Cuba and Rhodes ia is p roh ib i ted. CACEX has sus- pended the issuance of im p o rt l icenses for a large n um b er of "supe r f luous" im p o r t s. The im p o r t a t i on of au tomob i l e s, toys, and ce r ta in non e s s en t i al commodi- t ies is p r o h i b i t e d. There is also a p r o h i b i t i on on the BRAZIL direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the pub l ic and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Governmen t, autonomous agencies, public enter- prises, and companies w i th mixed public and private pa r t ic ipa t ion ). Also, ministries or agencies controlled by the Federal Government are prohibited from import- ing, leasing, or purchas ing in the domestic market m a ch in e ry, equ ipmen t, vehicles, and spare parts of fo re ign or ig in, for wh ich satisfactory domestic equiva- lents are ava i lab le. All other imports may be grouped in to the fo l low ing two broad categories: (1) imports that are f r ee of any requ i rement to secure prior adminis- t r a t ive documen ta t ion, e.g., samples without commercial va lue and certain educational material; and (2) imports that requ ire an impo rt ce r t i f ica te wh ich is issued subject to the p resen ta t ion of da ta on the fo re ign price of the commod i ty and o ther re levant in fo rma t ion CACEX may requ i re. Impo rt certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is au tho r ized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the va lue of impo rt certificates; as a r u l e, they are va l id for 90 or 180 days, depend ing on the commod i ty (60 days for goods sub j e ct to price controls). For special bonded wa rehou se impo r te rs, CACEX estab- lishes ha l f -yea r ly fo re ign currency quotas and issues c learance cer t if ica tes based on these importers' semi- annu al import programs. For a number of specified impo r t s, the impo rt ce r t i f ica te may be obtained af ter the commod i ty has been landed, e.g., l ive plants, fish, v a r ious m i n e r a l s, and paper. For cer ta in other impor ts the p r ior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods impor ted by pub l ic bodies,3 imports for which t a r i ff concessions are be ing sought, goods to be brought in w i th fo r e ign financing w i th terms between 180 and 360 days, ce r ta in impo r ts w i thout exchange cover, goods for use in f a i rs and t rade exh ib i t ions, and used i n s t r um e n t s, mach ine ry, and equ ipmen t. A ll impo r te rs mu st be reg is te red w i th CACEX, and impor ts can be e f fec ted o n ly by registered firms or persons. Importers are r e q u i r ed to subm it to CACEX programs of the ir expec ted impo rt ope ra t ion s. The M in is ter of F inance may, on a t em p o r a ry basis, and in accordance with the d i r e c t iv es of the Econom ic Deve lopment Counc il (EDC) and w i t h o ut p r e j u d i ce to comm i tm en ts under LAFTA, a u t h o r i ze CACEX to re ject a p p l i c a t i o ns for impo rt certifi- cates whe re (1) impo r ts are for specu la t ive stock bu i ld ing purposes; (2) impo r ts are caus ing or are th rea ten ing to cause ser ious damage to the na t ional economy; or (3) im p o r ts o r i g i n a te in or a re sh ipped f rom coun tr ies th at in any way raise imped imen ts to B raz i l ian exports. Goods impo r ted in to the M a n a us f r ee zone are sub- ject to an a n n u al quo ta. The t r a n s f er to other par ts of B r a z il (as a passenger's baggage) of fo re ign goods - B i l a t e r al a c c o u n ts a re m a i n t a i n ed w i th B u l g a r i a, G e rm an Democ ra t ic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, P o l a n d, a nd R om a n i a. S e t t l em e n ts w i th c o u n t r i es w i th w h i ch B r a z il h as no p a ym e n ts a g r e em e n ts or spec ial p a ym e n ts a r r a n g em e n ts a re made in U.S. do l la rs or o t h er c o n v e r t i b le cu r renc ie s. '•' U n d er i n s t r u c t i o ns issued by the Econom ic Deve lopment Counc i l, f e d e r al m i n i s t r i es a nd s u b o r d i n a te agenc ies a nd e n t e r p r i s es a re r equ i r ed to s u bm i t, f or a p p r o v al by t he P r e s i d e n t, an a n n u al i n v e s tm e nt p rog r am i n c o r p o r a t i ng t h e ir a n t i c i p a t ed im p o rt r e q u i r em e n t s. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL originally imported into the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$150 free of import taxes. With certain exceptions, all imports are subject to a compulsory advance deposit requirement equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of the imports. The deposits must be lodged before import certificates are collected and are held without interest by the Central Bank for a period of 360 days.4 As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days f rom the date of shipment, provided that no import du ty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External f inanc ing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports of capital goods, intermediate products, raw materials, and other merchandise, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be registered w i th the Central B ank, which will evaluate them in the l ight of fore ign debt policy, before a request can be made for registration w i th FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ru l ing by CACEX that Braz i l ian firms are unab le to supp ly the impor ts. Payment of the amount financed, and of interest thereon, may be made only upon pres- en ta t ion of a certificate of au thor iza t ion issued by the Cen tral Bank approving the credit terms. Prior to ship- ment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonf inanced amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import va lue. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is in tended to settle d ra f t s, at sight or on m a t u r i t y, and the app rop r ia te sh ipp ing documen ts are presented. Spot exchange con trac ts must be settled on ma tu r i ty of the d r a f t; th is may take place 2 work ing days in advance of the m a t u r i ty date if the exchange t rans fer is processed by te legram or telex, or 10 wo rk ing days in ad v an ce if processed by a i rma il or check. Forward con t rac ts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requ irement equ iva lent to 100 per cent of the va lue of the exchange ope ra t ion is app l ied, w i th some exceptions, to the con- t rac t ing of fo rw a rd exchange for the open ing of letters of cred i t. Such deposits must be t r an s f e r r ed to the Central Bank on the wo rk ing day f o l l ow i ng the contract- ing of the exchange ope ra t ion and are released on the da te of se t t lement or the da te of cance l la t ion of the con t rac t .5 Letters of credit mu st be opened w i th in 4 On J a n u a ry 24, 1979, by Re so lu t ion No. 508 of the N a t i o n al Mone- t a ry Coun c i l, B raz il r e d u c ed the im p o rt depo s it r e q u i r em e nt by 10 per c en t, and a n n o u n c ed a schedu le for the e l im i n a t i on of t h is r e q u i r em e nt by m id-1983, at a s em i a n n u al ra te of 10 pe rcen tage po in t s. •" Im p o r ts ex empt f r om the deposit r e q u i r em e nt i n c l u de bee f, p r i n t i ng paper f or n ew sp ap e r s, m a g a z i n es a nd books, f e r t i l i z e r s, c e r t a in a g r i c u l- t u r al c h em i c a ls a nd r e l a t ed r aw m a t e r i a ls f or t h e ir p rodu c t ion, a nd goods impo r t ed in to the Manaus f r ee zone. Also exempt are impo r ts a u t h o r i z ed u n d er d r aw b a ck op e r a t ions and impo r ts of seeds and f r u i ts for p l a n t i ng p rov ided th ey a re a l r e ady exempt f r om the depos it r equ i r e- m e nt app l i ed to the i s suance of impo rt licenses. 76 5 work ing days f rom the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are l iqu ida ted, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes for each import transaction an ind iv idual foreign exchange contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equ iva lent to the va lue of the ind iv idual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells fo re ign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, the application of import du t ies may be affected by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals) or the estab- lishment of a m in imum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income f rom foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remit- tances s t ipu la ted in that law, l im i ts are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell fore ign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which authorize remit- tances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documen ts as evidence that a bona fide current trans- action is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected w i th travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person a tr ip, w i thout the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank. Applications for purchases of t ravel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amoun ts in excess of US$1,000, when au thor ized, may be taken up in the fo rm of payment orders only. Foreign residents in t rans it in Brazil are permitted to purchase fore ign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold du r ing the period of their stay in B raz i l; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount prev ious ly sold require the approval of the Cen t ral Bank. The issuance of B raz i l ian passports, the g r a n t i ng of police exit visas in these passports, and the issuance of police exit visas to fore igners permanen t ly res ident in Brazil are subject to a deposit requ i rement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Cr$22,000. The deposit is he ld in the Bank of B raz il for one year w i thout in terest and w i t h o ut mon e t a ry indexa t ion. Persons w i s h i ng to pu rchase fo r e ign exchange for t r av el mu st f irst produce ev idence of p aym ent of the deposit r equ i r em ent in respect of passpor ts and ex it visas.6 Rem i t tances abroad of income f r om f o r e i gn d i rect inv e s tm en ts and r e i n v e s tm e n t s, and r em i t t a n c es in respect of roya l t ies and techn ical ass is tance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of F eb ru a ry 17, 1965, wh i ch con t a ins the regu la t ions im p l em e n t i ng the Fo re ign I n v e s tm e nt Law. R em i t t an c es a re a l lowed o n ly wh en the f o r e i gn cap i tal conce rned, i n c l u d i ng r e inv e s tm en t s, and the con- t rac ts for p a t en ts and t r a d em a r k s, and for t e chn i c a l, s c i en t i f i c, and a dm i n i s t r a t i ve ass is tance, a re reg is tered at FIRCE in accordance w i th the es tab l ished ru les (see section on Cap i ta l, b e l ow ). The reg i s t ra t ion of con trac ts or deeds for t e chn i c al assistance or the use of p a t en ts or t r ad em a rks is sub ject to a p p r o v al by the N a t i o n al In s t i tu te of I n d u s t r i al P rope r ty. R em i t t a n c es a re no r- m a l ly a u t h o r i z ed in the c u r r e n cy of the c o u n t ry of dom i c i le or of the head office of the b e n e f i c i a r i e s. R em i t t a n c es of in te re st on lo ans and c red i ts and of re la ted am o r t i z a t i on p a ym e n ts a re p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly in acco rdance w i th the te rms s t i p u l a t ed in the respec t ive con t ract and recorded in the c e r t i f i c a te of r e g i s t r a t i o n. A progress ive s u p p l em e n t a ry income tax is l ev i ed on r em i t t an c es to persons and comp an i es r e s id ent abroad of e a r n i n gs on fo r e ign c ap i t al (o ther t h an c a p i t al inve s ted in B r a z i l i an secu r i t ies) if t h e ir average over a th ree -year per iod exceeds 12 per cent of the reg is te red cap i tal and r e inv e s tm en t s. For registered p o r t f o l io c ap i t a l, the sup- p l em e n t a ry income tax is lev ied if r em i t t a n c es of d i v i d e n d s, bonuses, and c a p i t al g a i ns in each f i scal year exceed 12 per cent of the reg is tered inv e s tm en t. For f o r e i gn cap i tal that p rodu c es goods or services for l u x u ry c o n s um p t i o n, r em i t t an c es of p ro f i ts a re l im i t ed to 8 per cent per a n n um of the registered c ap i t a l. R em i t t an c es of roya l t ies by a b r a n ch or s u b s i d i a ry es tab l ished in B raz il to i ts head o f f ice abroad a re not p e rm i t t ed when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's v o t i ng cap i tal is d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly he ld by the fo r e ign p r i n c i p al firm or when the m a j o r i ty of the firm's cap i tal in B raz il be longs to the rec ip ien ts of the roy a l t i es ab road. R em i t t an c es of t e chn i c al assistance fees (e i ther w i th or w i thout the use of t r ad em a rks and pa ten ts) are not pe rm i t ted, as a ru l e, when r em u n e r a t i on for such services exceeds specified percen tages, r a n g i ng f rom 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts f rom the sale or manu- f a c t u re of the products. The percentages are the same as those es tab l ished in Brazil's taxa t ion laws for deter- m i n i ng the max imum permissible deduc t ions for such expenses. (i Ex empt f r om the depos it r e q u i r em e nt a re s tud en t s, teachers, ar t is ts, a t h l e t e s, pr ies ts and n u n s, fo r e ign e rs h o l d i ng t r a n s it visas, ho lde rs of d i p l om a t ic or se rv ice passpor ts, t e c h n i c i a ns and specialists whose travel abroad is in the pub l ic in te res t, and expor ters. BRAZIL Travelers may take out domestic and fo re ign bank- notes free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are f r ee of l icens ing requ i remen ts but requ i re an export cer t if ica te issued by CACEX to ensure com- p l iance w i th the requ i remen ts of exchange and trade regu la t ion s. Some exports are free of controls, but expor ts of m any commod i t ies requ i re prior approval of CACEX, wh i le exports of specified commodities are pro- hibited or su spended, i n c l u d i ng ce r ta in p r ima ry products and raw ma te r ia ls requ ired for domes t ic consump t ion, and exports of ce r ta in o ther commod i t ies are cond i t ional on p r ior domes t ic sales. Exports r equ i r ing approval i n c l u de those effec ted th rough b i la te ral accoun ts or payab le in inconve r t ib le currenc ies, exports w i thout exchange cover, expor ts on cons ignmen t, re-exports, commod i t i es for wh ich m i n im um export prices a re f ixed by CACEX, and expor ts r equ i r ing p r ior au tho r iza t ion by gov e rnm ent agencies. Expor ts of cer ta in commodities, i n c l u d i ng b e e f, a re sub j e ct to an a n n u al quo ta. Exports of co f fee are sub ject to au tho r i z a t ion by the IBC. The IBC does not g r ant an au tho r i z a t ion to expo rt coffee un l e ss the sale con t r a ct is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m i n im um reg is t ra t ion p r ice ( in U.S. do l l a rs a pound, f .o .b .) f ixed f rom t ime to t ime by the IBC for the va r ious types of coffee, a l though d i s coun ts are also au thor ized. Licensed co f fee expo r te rs are obliged to export a m i n im um qu an t i ty a year, wh i ch, for 1978, was fixed at 100,000 bags. Expo r te rs of coffee are requ i red to su r rende r, w i thout comp en s a t ion, a po r t ion of th e ir proceeds in the fo rm of a con t r ibu t ion quo ta wh ich va r ies according to the type of coffee. The c ruze i ro proceeds f r om the con- t r i b u t i on quo ta a re t r a n s f e r r ed to the Co f fee Defense F u n d. The con t r ibu t ion quo tas are set f r om t ime to t ime by the IBC and are fixed in terms of fo re ign cu r rency; on December 31, 1978 they were US$90 a bag (of 60.5 k i log rams) for green or ground-roas ted coffee, US$80 a bag for raw hu l led and deca f fe ina ted green coffee, US$1 .10 a pound for spray-dried soluble co f fee, and US$1 a pound for freeze-dr ied soluble coffee. Expo r te rs of coffee may convert exchange proceeds, a f t er deduc t ion of the con t r ibu t ion quotas, at the pre- v a i l i ng off ic ial ma rket rate of exchange. Thus, the exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on (1) the amount of the con t r ibu t ion quo ta, (2) the ac tual price received (f.o.b. Braz i l, in U.S. dollars), and (3) the offi- cial market rate of exchange. Dur ing 1978, the IBC con t inued to make periodic announcemen ts of new m i n im um registration prices, as well as contribution quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground- roasted, and deca f fe ina ted coffee. The proceeds f rom all other exports are also sold at f ree ly negotiated exchange rates, w i th in the l im i ts of the official marke t, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL p roduc ts are requ i red to su r render w i thout compensa- t ion 10 per cent of the ir exchange proceeds. The cruze iro equ iva lent of these deduc t ions is used to f inance a p rog ram of price suppo rt and p lan ta t ion imp rovement for cocoa. Fur thermore, a con t r ibu t ion quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of unprocessed h ides of w i ld an ima l s, 5 per cent on export proceeds f rom tanned or processed hides of w i ld an ima ls, and 20-40 per cent on export proceeds f rom qu a r tz chips. A large numb er of fiscal incentives app ly to exports, p r inc ipa l ly of m a n u f a c t u r ed commodities .7 These incen- tives in c lude exemp t ions f rom ind irect and income taxes, customs du t ies, and cer ta in fees and charges, as well as cred i ts related to the amount of exemp t ion f rom tax l iab i l i ty. Var ious l ines of cred it for expor ters, some at p r e f e r en t i al rates of interest, are prov ided by the Bank of Braz il and the commerc ial banks. These f i n a n c i ng f a c i l i t i es in c lude bo th export f in an c ing and the f in a n c i ng of production and wa rehous ing for export, p a r t i c u l a r ly for m anu f a c tu r e s. In add i t ion, ass is tance is p rov ided to expor ters in the field of export cred it in su rance and by way of guaran tees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom c u r r e nt inv is ib les must be sold through the Bank of Braz il or the au tho r ized banks at the preva i l ing ma rket rate. Travelers checks and fore ign bankno tes are sold in the "manual market ." B raz i l ian enterprises rende r ing services to tou r is ts (e.g., hotels, re s tau ran t s, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings from tourism, provided that the service is paid for in fore ign exchange and that the tourist en terpr ise converts the exchange in to cruzeiros at the official rate. Travelers may b r ing in domestic and foreign cu r rency notes free ly. Capital Capital inflows in the fo rm of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 4131) are sub ject to ceilings and requ ire the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of C EM P EX is also required for borrowing by the pub l ic sector, when the foreign funds originate w i th official financial ins t i tu t ions abroad for borrowing by the pr iva te sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its beha lf, by any off ic ial credit institution. Otherwise, inward t ran s fe rs are unre- stricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For 7 As pa rt of a package of l ibera l iza t ion measures in t roduced on Jan- u a ry 24, 1979, Brazil reduced by 10 per cent the export p rem ium credit re la t ing to the m a n u f a c t u r e r s' sales taxes, and announced a timetable for the elimination of th is p rem ium by mid-1983, at a qua r te r ly ra te of 5 per cent. 78 the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inwa rd t rans fe rs of foreign capital and the re inves tment of profits on fore ign capital must be regis- tered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as ( 1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for invest- ment in economic pursuits, provided tha t, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or w i th headquarters abroad. Foreign cap i tal other than capital invested in Brazil- ian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whe ther imported in the fo rm of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested prof i ts f rom fore ign capital. Direct investment is defined as that fore ign cap i tal wh ich constitutes pa rt of the corporate cap i tal and par t ic ipa tes directly in the risk inhe rent in an economic und e r t ak ing. Foreign capital that is not pa rt of the corporate cap i tal of any enterprise is cons idered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to pur- chase capital goods abroad, whe ther conceded by the m anu f a c tu r er himself or by a th ird party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make port- fo l io inves tmen ts in Brazilian commercial and indus t r ial securities, provided that transactions are channeled through a Braz i l ian "investment company" and are e f fec ted on Braz i l ian stock exchanges. Such cap i tal is sub ject to registration with the Central Bank and must rema in in the coun try for at least three years, fo l low ing which repa tr ia t ion may be made free of income taxes at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six months. The m in imum participation in po r t fo l io inves tment companies by foreign firms or ind iv idua ls is US$10,000. For financial imports and for investments made in the fo rm of goods, registration is made in the currency of the coun t ry of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the coun t ry of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in fore ign cur- rency it is necessary to c e r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dispro- por t iona te ly heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of com- parable goods in the coun try of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applica- tions for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the ava i lab i l i ty of satisfactory domestic equivalents. The registration of direct investment is subject to the fo l low ing rules: the capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in fore ign currency; reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and accruing to persons or companies resident or domi- ciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made s imu l taneous ly in B raz i l ian currency and in the currency of the c o u n t ry to wh ich the profits could have been rem i t ted. The conversion is ca lcu la ted at the average exchange rate p r ev a i l ing between the da te on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrow ing abroad. Under Cen t ral Bank Reso lu t ion No. 63, as amended, p r iva te commercial and investment banks and the Na t ional Bank for Economic Development may be au thor ized to take up fo re ign currency credits abroad for domestic re lend ing for purposes of f inanc ing work ing cap i ta l. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include l im i ta t ions on the foreign obligations th at each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the prov is ion that the u l t im a te borrower mu st agree to bear the exchange r isk. The C e n t r al Bank assures the a v a i l a b i l i ty of cover for the r e p a t r i a t i on of the loan at m a t u r i t y. A ll o ther f inanc ial loans in foreign currency are effected under the gen- eral prov is ions of the Foreign Inve s tment Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1 ). Loans und er this law also requ i re pr ior Cen- t ral B ank au tho r i z a t ion, but the Cen tral Bank does not u n d e r t a ke to p rov ide exchange cover for them. Loans und er Reso lu t ion No. 63, as we ll as those und er Law No. 4131, must have a m i n im um te rm of e ight years but no m a x im um term is set. For fore ign loans t h at en te red the coun t ry between November 11, 1977 and the end of the year, proceeds were deposited w i th the Cen t ral Bank for release between J a n u a ry 1 and J a n u- ary 5, 1978 acco rd ing to a set schedu le. B e g i n n i ng June 21, 1978, the m a n d a t o ry depos it pe r iod was f ixed at 30 days; th is per iod was ex tended in stages, and by November 22, 1978 it was 210 days for 40 per cent of the fund s, 180 days for ano ther 40 per cent, and 150 days for the ba lance of 20 per cent. Under a p rog ram for the m a n a g em e nt of ex t e rn al deb t, the N a t ion al Mone ta ry Counc il imposes q u a n t i t a- t ive l im i ts on the am o u nt of f inanc ial loans for wh i ch au tho r i z a t ion may be given by the Cen t ral Bank. Loans a re a u t h o r i z ed on ly if m a t u r i t i es con fo rm w i th m i n i m um r equ i r em en ts es tab l ished f r om t ime to t ime by the Cen t ral Bank, wh ich p e rm i ts the to tal of loans o u t s t a n d- ing to rise on ly to the ex tent t h at the s e rv i c ing comm i t- men ts on Brazil's total ex te rnal indeb tedness do not depa rt f rom the g u i d e l i n es set by the N a t i o n al M o n e t a ry Counc i l. At the end of 1978 the Cen t ral Bank 's m i n i- mum acceptable m a t u r i ty was eight years. However, p rov ided t h at the f u ll am o u nt of the f o r e i gn exchange r em a i ns comm i t ted to B r a z il for the m i n i m um spec if ied m a t u r i t y, loans to the final bo r rower in B r a z i l, as we ll as loans to b a n ks u n d er Re so lu t ion No. 63, may be made BRAZIL at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad and these f u n ds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Ou twa rd cap i tal transfers not men t ioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved exchange trans- actions invo lv ing outward transfers of private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the preva i l ing official market rate. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Brazil. Gold m in ing is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. Residents other than the mone tary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special per- mission is obtained from the Central Bank. The mone- tary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free ma rket prices, is subject to a m in ing tax of 1 per cent. The m i n i ng tax may be offset against the other tax l i ab i l i t i es if and when gold is m anu f a c tu r ed. The impo rt of gold is subject to the issuance of an import ce r t i f ica te by CACEX; impor ts of na t ive gold and of gold in the fo rm of powder are free of customs du ty. Exports of gold coin and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other fo rm (except jewe l ry con- s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a t rave le r) requires an export certificate. Changes during 1978 February 23. The Na t ional Monetary Council exemp ted imports of soybeans f rom the manda tory impo rt deposit scheme (Cen tral Bank Resolution No. 465 ). April 5. Import du ty exemptions were granted to cer ta in types of fertilizers, provided they were to be used exclusively for ag r icu l tu ral purposes. April 28. Two export incentive measures were intro- duced : ( 1) a new export cred it insurance system was set up by the Bank of Braz il to s t imu la te exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed goods and services; and (2) a system of o f f ic ial b a nk gua ran tees was in t roduced for b anks pro- v i d i ng export credit in the f o rm of suppliers' credits and buye rs' credits, the la t ter invo lv ing payment by the fo re ign buyer by means of credit f r om a Braz i l ian bank. June 20. The Na t ional Mon e t a ry Council announced tha t, w i th immed ia te effec t, fo re ign cu r rency loans must be deposited with the Central Bank for a manda to ry period of 30 days before borrowers cou ld u t i l ize the f u n d s. July 14. The m and a to ry w a i t ing period for which fo re ign loans must be deposited at the Central Bank, p end ing convers ion in to local cu r rency, was extended to 120 days. August 11. The above-mentioned manda to ry w a i t i ng 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL period was extended to 150 days, by Central Bank Circular No. 389. November 7. Following meetings with the U.S. authorities, it was announced that Brazil would make a 50 per cent cut in the export subsidies for textiles in two equal stages (on November 7, 1978 and on Jan- uary 3, 1979), and would commence negotiations to phase out the remaining textile export subsidies. November 22. Central Bank Resolution No. 497 announced a revised schedule for the release of foreign loans deposited at the Central Bank: 20 per cent of these funds were made subject to a minimum waiting period of 150 days, 40 per cent to 180 days, and 40 per cent to 210 days. November 23. The National Monetary Council raised from five to eight years the minimum required maturity for foreign currency loans by state run agencies or by private enterprises with government guarantees. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bu rma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Bu rma applies ma rg ins of 2 per cent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buy ing and selling rates of the kyat for the deu tsche ma rk, the French f r an c, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss f r an c, and the U.S. do l la r, quoted by the My anma Foreign Trade B a n k, are de te rm ined on the basis of the d a i ly ca lcu la t ions of the v a lue of these cur- rencies against the SDR. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar were K 6.6037 and K 6.7357, respec t ive ly, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian f r an c, the I ta l ian l i ra, and the Ne the r lands gu i lder are d e t e rm in ed on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York ma rke t; buy- ing and selling rates for the Hong Kong do l lar and the Ma lays ian r ingg it are de te rm ined week ly on the basis of app rop r ia te cross rates in the Hong Kong and Kua la L um p ur marke ts, respec t ive ly; and buy ing and selling rates for other currenc ies are based on appropriate cross rates in local ma rke ts (e.g., Bombay, for the Ind ian r u p e e ). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Exchange Control Board in accordance with ins truc t ions f rom the M in is t ry of P lann ing and F inance, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. A Foreign Exchange Control Comm i t tee headed by the M in i s ter of P l a n n i ng and F inance is in charge of the a l loca t ion of fo re ign exchange to the public sector. Prescription of Currency Bu rma has no b i la teral paymen ts agreements. Certain settlements with Bang ladesh are channe led through a nonres ident b ank account at the My anma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain se t t lemen ts w i th Ind ia are channeled through special rupee accounts in that coun try. Pay- ments to other coun tr ies may be made in any fore ign currency or by cred i t ing kya ts to an Ex te rnal Account in Bu rma. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by in terna t ional organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other fore ign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are norma l ly held in deutsche mark, Ind ian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely but no interest is payab le on them. Foreign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Bu rma are en t i t led to hold fore ign exchange utiliza- t ion cards for use in d ip loma t ic shops. Nonresidents may be au thor ized to hold ex ternal accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- h ib i t ed. Also proh ib i ted are imports of a few commodi- ties f rom any source —principally opium and other narcotics, monkeys, p l ay ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. An import p rog ram is d rawn up annua l ly as part of the fo re ign exchange budget drawn up by the M in i s t ry of P l ann ing and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (M E IC ). The MEIC imports goods for the use of the p r iva te sector, whose requ iremen ts are esti- ma ted by the Central Trade Council. Generally, gov- e rnm ent agencies and depa r tmen ts import goods for the ir own use, inc lud ing impor ts under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Bu rma Five Star Line whenever possible. All paymen ts for imports are made th rough the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles are subject to licensing. In genera l, paymen ts for items connected with foreign t rade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Paymen ts for membership fees to educational or tech- nical ins t i tu t ions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain fore ign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed free ly. Fam i ly remittances are permitted only for fore ign technicians employed under contract by the Gove rnmen t, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w i fe is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the w i fe is living in Burma. Remittances of insurance paymen ts are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before depar ture f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on off ic ial missions or for emp loyment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any fore ign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the rema in ing balance of the kyats obtained by conver- sion of fore ign currency. The export of Burmese cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports com- prising iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scrap the reo f, fo re ign m a n u f a c t u r e s, and commod i t ies of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic requirements. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although rubber, ju te, fish and fish prod- ucts, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by other government agencies and depar tmen ts. Rice is exported by the Ag r icu l tu re and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities, and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months f rom the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Bu rma Five Star Line or on vessels chartered or nom ina ted by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declara- tion, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital In principle, investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, i n c r e a se d om e s t ic em p l o ym e n t, c o n s e r ve f o r e i gn exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward t rans fe rs of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for inves tmen t. The repatriation of personal assets and the mak ing of f am i ly remittances have been suspended, w i th minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leav ing the service. When the transfer abroad of pay- ments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to ex te rnal accoun ts in kya ts. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and t rans fer of securities involving nonresident in teres ts requ i re ind iv idual licenses. Gold Residents' may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effec ted by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repa tr ia ted. No conditions are attached, however, to the t ak ing out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Bu rundi is the Bu rundi Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at FBu 90.00 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1978 were FBu 89.55 and FBu 90.45, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of the Repub l ic of B u r u n di ( the central b ank) quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official ma rket rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels. Buy ing and selling rates for cer ta in other currencies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quo ted, w i th quo ta t ions based on either the quoted rates for the Belgian f ranc and the official market rates in Brussels for the currencies concerned or, for the Kenya shilling, the Rwanda f ranc, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda sh i l l ing, and the zaire, on their off ic ial values in terms of SDRs. The Rwanda f ranc is also o f f ic ia l ly quoted by the Bank of the Republic at the ra te of FBu 96.94 per RF 100, the off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates be ing FBu 96.45 and FBu 97.43, respectively, per RF 100. Au thor ized banks must carry out permitted exchange t ransac t ions at the buy ing and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic for currenc ies quoted by th at Bank. A charge of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Control over fore ign exchange t ran sac t ions and foreign t rade is vested in the Bank of the Repub l ic; au tho r i ty to ca r ry out some t ran sac t ions is delegated to three au thor ized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Rw anda and Za ire are effected th rough special accoun ts. W i th th is excep t ion, outgoing paymen ts may be made in any currency, wh i le receipts must be ob ta ined in a cu r rency quo ted by the Bank of the Repub l ic. Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident Accoun ts in B u r u n di Francs may be m a i n t a i n e d, sub ject to the app roval of the Bank of the Repub l ic, by ( 1) phys ical persons of fo re ign n a t ion a l i ty, such as d ip loma ts, who are t em p o r a r i ly es tab l ished in B u r u n di and are not cons idered as res iden ts, and (2) j u r i d i c al persons of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty w i th special s ta tus, such as fo re ign embassies and in te rna t ional or- gan iza t ions. These accoun ts may be cred i ted f ree ly w i th 1 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, C a n a d i an do l la rs, Dan i sh k r o n e r, deu tsche m a r k, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y en, Kenya s h i l l i n g s, N e th e r- l ands gu i ld e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, pounds s t e r l i n g, Rw a n da f r a n c s, Swedish k r o n o r, Swiss ' f r a n c s, Tanzan ia sh i l l ing s, U g a n da sh i l l ings, and zaires. the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic and they may be debited freely for w i thdrawa ls of Burundi francs for any normal current paymen ts in Bu rundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bankno te s ). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Repub l ic and is restricted to (1) physical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) ju r id ical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion in to B u r u n di f rancs for any payments in B u r u n di and (2) paymen ts abroad for travel and rep resen ta t ion or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Bu rundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts o r ig in a t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. All imports except t rade samples and me rchand ise not in tended for sale, whose declared consumer va lue c. & f. Bu jumbu ra is FBu 50,000 or less, requ i re licenses; these licenses are genera l ly issued f ree ly, but impor ters have been in- s truc ted not to order abroad ce r ta in goods of which domestic stocks are adequa te or that are produced locally. App l ica t ions for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Repub l ic through an authorized bank. The app roval of such an app l ica t ion constitutes an a u t h o r i z a t i on also to ob ta in f o r e i gn exchange. With ce r ta in excep t ions, app l ica t ions for amoun ts under FBu 500,000 are approved by the au tho r ized banks. A l icense is va l id for 12 mon ths s t a r t ing on the first day of the m o n th fo l low ing i ts v a l i d a t i o n. An adm in is tra t ive tax am o u n t i ng to 1 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of the goods is collected at the t ime of v a l i d a t i on of the license. A ll goods impo r t ed in to B u r u n di must be insured by the app roved B u r u n di i n s u r er ( SOCABU) and p rem iums must be pa id in B u r u n di f r an c s; in add i t ion, a ll consignments of impo r ts exceeding FBu 500,000 in va lue are subject to q u a l i t a t i ve and q u a n t i t a t i ve inspec t ion and price com- pa r i son by the con trol au tho r i ty, the Societe Generate de Su rve i l lance. In p r inc ip le, fo r e ign exchange is made available at the t ime of sh ipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, fo r e ign exchange is not made available u n t il a f t er customs clearance. A ll impor ts are subject 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with brokers or insurers established in Burund i. Upon proof of payment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted at rates ranging from 18 to 60 per cent of the net annual income, depending on the amount of such income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immedi- ately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not ex- ceeding 50 per cent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax. The balance of the profits may be transferred subsequently, depending on the savings made in Burundi by those concerned. However, enter- prises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of fu ll trans- ferab i l i ty of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanen t ly are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Bu rundi francs that consist of unrem i t ted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income f rom rental properties to nonres ident owners of fore ign nationality is perm i t ted up to 50 per cent of net rental income ( a f t er payment of taxes and deduc t ion of 20 per cent for ma in tenance expenses); resident owners of foreign na t iona l i ty may remit the same proportion of such in- come. Residents of Bu rundi na t iona l i ty may apply for exchange needed for fo re ign travel. There is no fixed l im it on the amount that may be allocated, which de- pends on the na tu re of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi banknotes. In add i t ion, residents may free ly purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amoun ts, against payment in Bu rundi f rancs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. All exports va lued at over FBu 5,000 are sub- ject to a prior dec lara t ion. The dec lara t ion must be presented for ce r t i f ica t ion by the Bank of the Republic th rough an au thor ized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Paymen ts must be collected not later than 45 days a f ter the goods have le ft the coun try, when they are sold to neighboring countries or to Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, or Zambia, and not la ter than 90 days for goods shipped to other des t ina t ions. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank w i th in 8 days f rom the ir collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee and of cattle, sheep, and goatskins are the monopoly of the Bu rundi 84 Coffee Company and of Burundi Tanneries, respectively. V ir tua l ly all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufac- tured goods may receive a re fund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fulfills specified condi- tions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, du r ing a period of 5 years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reducd or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may obtain protection against fore ign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guaran tee from the Bank of the Republic for the free t rans fer of profits and d iv idends and the repa tr ia t ion of the invested capital. In add i t ion to these privileges, companies under tak ing investments that are considered to be of prime impor- tance to Burund i's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on the ir activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Ministry of P lann ing is charged with examin- ing requests for priority status and granting the neces- sary au tho r iza t ion. Capital t rans fe rs by residents require individual au- thorization, as does fore ign capital on which a repatria- tion guaran tee has been granted. The guarantee is fu rn i sh ed for fore ign exchange imported by resident enterprises for wo rk ing capital purposes, in any of the currenc ies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and is va l id for a one-year period, which is renewable. The gua ran tee provides for the t ran s fer of the original amount surrendered at the official ra te ruling on the day of t ran s fe r. Gold Dealings in gold coin must be carried out through the Bank of the Republic, since all private dealing in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold is prohibited. The Bank purchases un re f ined gold f rom domestic producers at FBu 350 a gram. Af ter re f in ing abroad, this gold is inc luded in the official mone tary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Repub l ic, w i th the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for den tal use. Changes during 1978 March 1. The m and a to ry 100 per cent import deposit requ irement covering ma in ly luxu ry goods was abolished. July 1. It was announced that all imports into B u r u n di should be insured w i th the approved Burundi in su rer ( SOCABU) and p rem iums should be paid in B u r u n di f ranc s. All cons ignmen ts of goods exceeding FBu 500,000 in value were made subject to qualitative and quan t i ta t ive inspection and price comparison by the Societe Generate de Surveillance. BURUNDI 85 ^ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The cu r rency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f r a n c, the i n t e r v e n t i on currency, at the fixed ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- ac t ions in French f r an cs between the Banque des E ta ts de TA f r i q ue Cen t ra le (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other fo re ign currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the ra te for the cu r rency con- cerned in the Par is exchange m a rk e t. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control W i th the excep t ion of those r e l a t ing to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange con t rol measures gene ra l ly do not app ly to ( 1) France ( a nd i ts Overseas D ep a r tm en ts and Te r r i to r ie s) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other coun t r ies whose bank of issue is l i n k ed w i th the French Treasury by an Ope ra t ions Account (B e n i n, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made f ree ly but all financial t r an s f e rs in excess of CFAF 500,000 to coun t r ies of the f o rm er French Franc Area mu st be declared to the au tho r i t ies for s ta t i s t ical purposes. All countries, except Cameroon i tse lf, are con- s idered fo re ign coun tr ies. Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the Directorate of Econom ic Con tro ls and Ex te rnal F inance in the M i n i s t ry of F inance. Exchange t ransac t ions re la t ing to a ll coun tr ies mu st be effected th rough au thor ized in ter- med ia r ies, i.e., the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on and au thor- ized banks. Impo rt licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and P l a n n i n g, wh i le the a r rangemen ts for dom i c i l i a t ion of expor ts requ i re the visa of the M in i s t ry of F inance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun try, settlements w i th France (as def ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies are made in CFA f r an c s, French f rancs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements with all other coun tr ies are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des E ta ts de 1 'A f r ique Cen t ra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Cen tral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. 86 The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be cred i ted to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs when ma i led to the Na t ional Directorate of the BEAC in Y aounde by the fo re ign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia and South A f r ica are pro- h ib i ted. The import f r om all sources of cer ta in "con- t ro l led" goods requ i res a special au tho r iza t ion (autonsa- tion speciale d'importation), in addition to an import l icense. All o ther impo r ts, irrespective of origin, are subject to l icens ing when va lued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses are issued f ree ly. All impo rt t ran sac t ions must be domiciled with an au tho r ized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 50,000. Im p o rt licenses en t i t le impor ters to purchase the neces- sa ry exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts have been subm i t ted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies requ ire prior declaration but are pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Paymen ts for inv is ib les re la ted to t rade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic t rade transac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonres iden ts in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royal- t ies are also permitted free ly, subject to declaration, when the basic transac t ion has been approved. For tou r i st trave l, res iden ts trave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any fo re ign exchange rema in ing a f ter return to Cam- eroon mu st be su r rende red. For business travel, the cor- re spond ing allocation is the equ iva lent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 450,000 a t r ip. The t ran s fer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign na t iona ls is limited, in principle, to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally l im i t ed to the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 every two or th ree years. Depending on fam i ly status, the t rans fer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution takes place w i th in one month of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of fore igners wo rk ing in Cameroon tempo ra r i ly, paymen ts of insu rance prem iums to fore ign coun tr ies are not perm i t ted if the same type of in su rance is ava i lab le in Cameroon. Res ident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the former French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bankno tes. Travelers to o ther coun t r ies of the fo rmer French Franc Area may, sub ject to prior declara- t ion, take out any am o u nt in BEAC bankno tes. Nonres ident travelers may take out fore ign bankno tes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en try, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declarations were made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Exports to all coun tr ies are subject to dom ic i l ia t ion a r rangemen ts r equ i r ing the v isa of the M in i s t ry of F inance. Proceeds f rom exports to all coun t r ies must be collected w i t h in 30 days of the da te of a r r ival at their de s t ina t ion, and proceeds received in cu r renc ies, other t h an those of France or an Ope ra t ions Account coun try, mu st be su r rende red w i t h in a mon th a f ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom t ransac t ions in inv is ib les w i th France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom resi- dents of other coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fo r e ign assets, must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due da te and su r rende red w i t h in a mon th of co l lec t ion if received in fo re ign cu r rency. Resident and non re s ident trave lers may b r ing in any am o u nt of bankno tes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any am o u nt of fo re ign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of coun t r ies ou t s ide the fo rmer French F ranc Area. Capital Capital movemen ts between Cameroon and France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Op e r a t ions Account coun t r ies are f ree of exchange con tro l. Cap i tal t r an s f e rs to a ll o ther coun t r ies r equ i re exchange con t rol approval and are res t r ic ted, but cap i tal rece ip ts f rom such coun- tries a re p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly. Em i g r a n ts to coun t r i es out- side the f o rm er F rench F ranc A rea may t r a n s f er abroad the ir f u ll savings, p rov ided t h at th ey have met th e ir tax obligations. Special con tro ls (add i t ional to any exchange con trol requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) a re m a i n t a i n ed over bo r row ing and l end ing abroad, over inw a rd and CAMEROON ou tward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the measures do not apply to re la t ions w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account countries. All foreign securities, fore ign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonres iden ts must be deposited with an authorized in te rmed ia ry, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct inves tmen ts abroad2 require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance, unless they take the form of a cap i tal increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undis- tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such inves tmen ts requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as c o n s t i t u t i ng a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct inve s tmen ts in Came roon3 require prior declaration to the M i n i s t er of Finance, unless they take the form of a cap i tal increase resu l t ing f rom reinvestment of undis- t r i b u t ed p ro f i t s; the M in i s ter has a period of two months f r om rece ipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request po s tponemen t. The fu ll or par t ial liquidation of d irect inve s tmen ts in Cameroon requires only reporting to the M in i s ter of Finance, unless the operation involves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a par t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the m ak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inve s tmen t s, whe ther these are Cameroon ian investments abroad or fo re ign inves tmen ts in Cameroon, must be repor ted to the M in i s t er of F inance w i th in 20 days f o l l ow i ng each ope ra t ion. Direct investments are defined as inv e s tm en ts imp ly ing control of a company or enter- pr ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inv e s tm en t, prov ided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the cap i tal of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the M in i s ter of F inance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, however, and sub ject only to an ex post repor t, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Came roon ian Gove rnment and (2) shares similar to secu r i t ies whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. B o r r ow i ng abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whe ther p u b l ic or p r iva te, whose no rmal residence or registered o f f ice is in Came roon, or by branches or sub s i d i a r i es in Cameroon of ju r id i c al persons whose 2 I n c l u d i ng those m ade t h r o u gh fo r e ign companies that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in Cameroon and those made by b r a n c h es or s u b s i d i a r i es ab road of compan ies in Came roon. :! I n c l u d i ng those m ade by compan ies in Came roon that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er f o r e i gn con t rol and those made by branches or sub s id i a r i es in Came roon of f o r e i gn companies. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization, and require only a report: ( 1) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt f rom prior authorization and are subject only to a repor t: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between fo re ign coun t r ies, in wh ich these persons or firms take pa r t; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the m a t u r i ty does not exceed two years and the ra te of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Inves tment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benef i ts which may be granted to both fore ign and domestic firms unde r tak ing approved new indus tr ial or agr icu l tural projects in Cameroon. The scope and dura- t ion of the benef i ts va ry depend ing on the size of the inves tmen t, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its impor- tance to na t ional economic growth. Category A permits ma in ly du ty - f ree en try of cap i tal goods and raw materials requ i red for m a n u f a c t u r i ng and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years f rom the tax on indus tr ial and commercial prof i ts and f rom va r ious other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the na ture and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is normally valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assur- ance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D enables firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73 /27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one th ird of the share capital of each bank ing institution and that its head- quarters should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities informa t ion on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other fo rm. Such approval is normally given only to indus- tr ial users, inc lud ing jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which author- izes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus- tr ial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt f rom this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies, and (2) imports and exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed articles con ta in ing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Canada is the C a n a d i an Do l lar. The au tho r i t ies of Canada do not m a i n t a in m a r g i ns in respect of exchange t ransac t ions, and exchange rates are deter- m ined on the basis of d em and and supp ly cond i t ions in the exchange m a r k e t; however, the au tho r i t i es in te rvene f rom t ime to t ime to m a i n t a in o rde r ly cond i t ions in that m a r k e t. The p r i n c i p al i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency is the U.S. do l l a r. The c lo s ing i n t e r b a nk m a r k et ra te for the U.S. do l lar on December 29, 1978 was Can$ 1.858 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are s im i l a r ly de ter- m in ed in the m a r k et and it is not the practice of the au tho r i t i es to in te rvene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pu rchases or sales of fo r e ign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada no t i f ied the Fund that it was prepared to accept the ob l iga t ions of A r t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t. Prescription of Currency No prescr ip t ion of cu r rency r e q u i r em e n ts are in force. Paymen ts and t r a n s f e rs to Rhodes ia are restricted in accordance w i th the re levant Re so lu t ions of the UN Security Council. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f r om Rhodes ia are p roh ib i ted. Impo rt licenses are requ i red on ly for ce r ta in drugs, a few ag r icu l tu ral i tems, ce r ta in tex t i le produc ts, c lo th ing, and foo twear, ce r ta in endange red species of f a u na and f lo ra, na tu ral gas, and ma te r ial and equ ipm ent for the produc t ion or use of a tom ic energy. For some ag r i cu l tu r al items, such as cer ta in da i ry produc ts, licenses are gene ra l ly not being issued. Commerc ial impo r ts of cer ta in commod i t ies f rom any source are gene ra l ly p roh ib i ted; these inc lude o leoma rga r ine, used au tomob i les, secondhand a i rc ra f t, and ce r ta in periodicals. Exports and Export Proceeds The su r render of the proceeds f r om exports is not requ i red, and exchange receipts are f ree ly disposable. For supp ly reasons, the export of a few commod i t ies to all des t ina t ions is under export control. These include crude petroleum, cer ta in petroleum products, and na tural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on certain speci- fied commodities to all destinations except the United States. All exports to A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Demo- cratic Repub l ic and East Be r l in, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are sub ject to control, a l though cer ta in goods of C a n a d i an or ig in may be exported to these destinations und er the au tho r i ty of a general export permit. The export of all goods to Rhode s ia is p roh ib i ted, except med ical supp l ies, news m a t e r i a l, educa t ional equ ipment and m a t e r i a ls for use in educa t ional in s t i tu t ion s, and books, magaz ines, and periodicals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No r equ i r em en ts are imposed on exchange payments f o r, or exchange receipts f r om, invisibles. However, trave lers may not take out any C an ad i an silver coins m in ted in or pr ior to 1968. Capital No exchange con t rol r equ i r em en ts are imposed on cap i tal rece ip ts or p aym en ts by res iden ts or nonresidents. Ap a rt f rom specific res tr ic t ions in the f inanc ia l, broad- casting, and u r a n i um sectors, inwa rd direct investment is governed by the Foreign Inves tment Review Act. This s t ipu la tes that the a cqu i s i t ion of control over a Canad ian b u s i n e ss en t e rp r i se by persons o ther th an Canad ians, or the e s t ab l i shm ent of a new bu s ine ss by such persons not p rev ious ly es tab l ished in Canada, or whose proposed new bus iness is un re la ted to the ir existing business in Canada, w i ll be allowed if it is assessed that such invest- men ts are of s i g n i f i c a nt bene f it to Canada. A Foreign Inve s tment Review Agency is charged w i th the review of proposed takeovers and the sc reen ing of the establish- m e nt of new businesses. There are no controls over ou twa rd direct inves tmen t, nor over inwa rd or outward po r t fo l io investment. Gold R e s id en ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad. Exports of gold are subject to the fo l low ing cond i t ions: ( 1) exports to A lb an i a, Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democratic Republic and East Be r l in, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rom an i a, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are included among those expor ts subject to control and require a license f rom the Depar tment of Industry, Trade, and Commerce; (2) gold of U.S. origin may be re-exported f r om Canada only when covered by a perm it issued by the M in is ter of Indus try, Trade, and Commerce, under the au tho r i ty of the Export and Import Permits Act; and (3) movemen ts of gold to or f rom Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Commercial impo r ts of articles containing m i n or qu an t i t i es of gold, such as watches, are unre- s t r ic ted and f ree of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face va lue of Can$100 have been issued annua l ly since 1976. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Changes during 1978 February 15. A special steel task force was estab- lished w i th in the Department of Na t ional Revenue, Cus- toms, and Excise to monitor prices of steel imports. This action followed the announcement of similar schemes by the EEC and the United States and was considered necessary to preclude the diversion of s ign if icant quan t i- ties of steel to the Canadian market. The special steel task force did not initiate any actions dur ing 1978. March 2. Canada and the Republic of Korea con- cluded a four-year quota agreement under which Korean tex t i le shipments would be restricted from 1979 onward. Shipments of specified textiles to Canada would increase by between 2.7 and 10 per cent a year d u r i ng 1979-81. April 10. Under the budget proposals for 1978-79 the tempo ra ry tar iff cuts first in troduced in February 1973 were fu r ther extended for one year, through June 1979. The duty-free entry of a i rc ra ft and a ircraft engines not manufac tured in Canada was extended. The following tariff changes were also in troduced: regular duties were to apply again as of Ju ly 1 for several food items (canned and frozen asparagus and frozen brussels sprou ts), glass tableware, surface-active agents, and syn- thetic detergents; the reduced rate for canned meat was increased f rom 10 per cent to 15 per cent; tires for nonagricultural tractors were excluded f rom free entry; and the British preferential tariff rates were withdrawn on imports f rom the United Kingdom and Ireland for confec t ionery, articulated boom-type cranes for mount- ing on trucks, certain diesel engines, knitted garments, and certain components for television antennas. June 12. The import quota for cheese for the period Apr il 1, 1978 to March 31, 1979 was established at 45 million pounds, 10 per cent less than in the previous year. June 21. It was announced that to replace the global textile and clothing quota, due to be terminated on December 31, three-year agreements had been reached on import quotas for textiles with the People's Republic of Ch ina, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Repub- lic of Korea (see entry for March 2, above), the Philippines, Poland, and Romania, effective January 1, 1979. The annual growth rates for the second and third years of these arrangements would range from 2.8 per cent to 6.4 per cent per annum. October 27. Canada acceded to the renewed Inter- na t ional Textiles Agreement. December 5. Canada initialed a bilateral textile arrangement w i th Thailand under Article IV of the In terna t ional Textiles Agreement covering a number of clothing items. The arrangement was for three years beginning Janua ry 1, 1979. On December 7 a similar arrangement was reached with Macao. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDEl (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies representing Cape Verde's 18 most important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 29, 1978, the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 35.649 and C.V. Esc 36.241, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola, Guinea- Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the M in is t ry of Economic Coord ina t ion, require the visa of the central bank, and are generally valid for 90 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaran teed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are gran ted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other develop- ment-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authorization. Transfers for tour ism are limited to a max imum of C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for children less than 15 years o ld ). When traveling accom- panied by his family, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency up to C.V. Esc 6,000 plus C.V. Esc 4,000 for each member less than 15 years old but the total transfer for each family may not exceed C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a max imum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country and thereafter C.V. Esc 5,000 a month. The equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business trip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical treatment. These latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Trans- fers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contract. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domes- tic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean banknotes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident- owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1978 1 Cape Verde became a member of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund on November 20, 1978. No significant changes took place. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Central Afr ican Empire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange marke t. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the Central A f r ican Empire's exchange control measures do not app ly to ( 1) France (and i ts Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) a ll other coun- t r ies whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B e n i n, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered fore ign countries. A ll d r a ft leg is la t ion, d i rec t ives, correspondence, and con trac ts h av ing a d irect or ind i rect b e a r i ng on the finances of the State requ i re the pr ior app roval of the M in i s t er of F inance, who has delegated his approval a u t h o r i ty to the D irec tor of the Budge t. The Office of Foreign F in an c i al R e l a t ions in the M i n i s t ry of F inance supe rv ises bo r row ing and l e n d i ng abroad, the issuing, adve r t i s ing, or sale of fo r e ign secur i t ies in the Central A f r i c an Em p i r e, and i nw a rd and ou tw a rd d irect invest- m e n t. Exchange con t rol is adm in i s te red by the M in i s ter of F inance, who has delegated some of his approval a u t h o r i ty to the BEAC,2 to the au tho r i z ed bank s, and to the Pos tal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. A ll exchange t ransac t ions r e l a t i ng to fo re ign coun t r ies must be e f fec ted th rough au tho r i z ed banks. Impo rt and export l icenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in i s t ry of Comme rce and Indu s t ry, except those for gold, which are issued by the BEAC. Prescription of Currency S ince the C e n t r al A f r i c an Emp i re is an Ope ra t ions A c c o u nt c o u n t r y, s e t t l em en ts w i th F rance ( as de f ined a b o v e ), Mon a co, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in the C e n t r al A f r i c an Emp i re is issued by the B a n q ue des E t a ts de 1 ' A f r i q ue C e n t r a le ( B E A C) and is legal t e n d er also in C am e r o o n, Chad, Congo, and G abon. - T he a u t h o r i ty d e l e g a t ed to t he BEAC r e l a t es to ( 1) t he con t rol over the e x t e r n al p o s i t i on of the b a n k s, (2) the g r a n t i ng of excep t ional t r av el a l l o c a t i o ns in excess of the bas ic a l lowances, and (3) the con t rol over the r e p a t r i a t i on of net e x p o r jt proceeds. 92 are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal non- resident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bankno tes received by the foreign correspondents of au thor ized banks and mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Cen- tra le des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited free ly to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. The import f rom all countries of a few commod i t ies that are also produced domesti- ca l ly is proh ib i ted. The import of certain foods tu f fs is not authorized unless local production of these com- mod i t ies is inadequa te. Impor ts of certain goods, when not o r ig ina t ing in a member coun try of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC ), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespec- t ive of o r ig in. All other impor ts f rom countries in the f o rm er French Franc Area may be made free ly and w i thout an impo rt license. All other imports f rom EEC coun t r ies ( the or ig inal member states) also are free f r om q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions. Impo r ts f rom a ll countries ou ts ide the f o rm er French Franc Area are subject to l i c en s ing w i th in the f r am ewo rk of an annual import p rog ram. A ll impo rt transac t ions re la t ing to foreign coun t r ies mu st be domiciled with an authorized bank. The impo rt license entitles impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- men ts are s u bm i t t ed to the au thor ized bank. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries are per- m i t t ed f r e e ly; those to other coun tr ies are subject to app rova l. For m a ny types of payment the approval a u t h o r i ty has been delegated to au tho r ized banks. Pay- m e n ts for inv is ib les related to t rade are perm i t ted freely wh en the basic t rade t ran sac t ion has been approved or does not r equ i re au tho r i z a t ion. Transfers of income a c c r u i ng to non re s iden ts in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and roya l t ies are also perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic t ran sac t ion has been approved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Re s ident tou r is ts t r av e l ing to coun t r ies o ther th an France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Op e r a t ions A c c o u nt coun t r i es may ob t a in an exchange a l loca t ion of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 50,000 a y e ar for each person; of t h is a l l o c a t i o n, an am o u nt e q u i v a l e nt to CFAF 25,000 may be t a k en out in fo re ign b a n k n o t e s. Any exchange in excess of the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 5,000 th at r em a ins a f t er r e t u rn to the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re must be su r rende red. For bu s ine ss t ravel to fo re ign coun t r ie s, there is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iva lent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, sub ject to a m a x im um of CFAF 100,000 a t r ip, for t ravel to c e r t a in l is ted coun t r ies; the a l loca t ion for bus iness t ravel to any o ther fo re ign coun t ry is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a t r i p; of t h is a l l o c a t i o n, an amount e q u i v a l e nt to CFAF 5,000 may be t a k en out in fo re ign bankno te s. The t r a n s f er of the e n t i re net s a l a ry of a fo re igner w o r k i ng in the Cen tral A f r i c an Em p i re is pe rm i t ted upon p r e s e n t a t i on of the a p p r o p r i a te pay vou ch e r, p rov ided t h at the t r a n s f er takes p lace w i t h in th r ee m o n t hs of the pay pe r iod. Trave lers to f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es may take out up to a m a x i m um of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC b a n k n o t e s, F rench b ankno t e s, and b a n k n o t es issued by any o ther i n s t i t u te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Op e r a t ions Account w i th the F rench Treasury. Trave lers to o ther coun t r ies may take out any am o u nt in BEAC bankno te s. Non r e s id ent travelers may t ake out fo re ign currency and o ther fo re ign m e ans of p a ym e nt up to the amou nt dec la red by them on e n t r y; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bankno tes in to f o r e i gn currency. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports to Po r tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are su spended. All expo r ts of co t ton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanu t s, palm oil, mea t, and d iamonds r equ i re a l icense. A ll o ther expor ts to coun t r i es in the fo rm er F rench F ranc A rea may be made f r e e ly. A ll expor ts to coun t r i es ou ts ide th is area r e q u i re l icenses, wh ich a re issued f ree ly. Proceeds f rom expor ts to f o r e i gn coun t r i es mu st be collected and repa t r ia ted w i t h in one m o n th f r om the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days a f ter the a r r iv al of the goods at t h e ir d e s t in a t ion, un le ss special au tho r i z a t ion is ob ta ined. Export proceeds received in currenc ies other th an those of France or an Opera t ions A c count coun t ry m u st be su r rende red. A ll export t r an s a c t ions mu st be dom i c i l ed w i th an au tho r ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom t r an s a c t ions in inv is ib les w i th France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun t r i es may be re ta ined. A ll am o u n ts due f r om resi- den ts of o ther coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun t r ies f r om fo re ign assets, mu st be collected w i t h in a m o n th of the due da te and, if received in fo r e ign cu r rency, surrendered w i th in a CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE m o n th of the da te of receipt. Res ident and non res ident t r a v e l e rs may b r ing in any am o u nt of b a n k n o t es and co in issued by the BEAC, the B a nk of France, or any o ther b ank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the F rench T reasu ry, as we ll as any am o u nt of fo r e ign b a n k n o t es and co in (except gold c o i n) of coun- t r ies ou ts ide the f o rm er French F ranc A rea. Capital Cap i tal mov em en ts be tween the Cen t ral A f r ican Em p i re and F r an ce (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies are f ree of exchange c o n t r o l; cap i tal t r a n s f e rs to a ll o ther coun t r ies requ i re ex ch ange con t rol app rov al and a re res t r ic ted, but capital rece ip ts f r om such coun t r ies are pe rm i t ted free ly. A ll fo r e ign bo r row ing by the Gov e rnm ent or i ts pub l ic and s em i p u b l ic en t e rp r i s e s, as we ll as a ll fo r e ign bo r row ing w i th a gov e rnm ent gua ran tee, requ i res the pr ior approval of the D i rec tor of the Budge t. Special con t ro ls ( a d d i t i o n al to any exchange control r e q u i r em e n ts t h at may be app l i c ab l e) a re m a i n t a i n ed over b o r r ow i ng and l e n d i ng ab road, over inwa rd and o u tw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e n t, and over the issu ing, adver- t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo r e ign secu r i t ies in the C e n t r al A f r i c an Emp i r e; these con tro ls re la te to the t r a n s a c t i o ns th em s e lv e s, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the excep t ion of those con tro ls over the sale or i n t r o d u c t i on of f o r e i gn secu r i t ies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Em p i r e, the mea su res do not app ly to France (as def ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account countries. D irect inv e s tm en ts a b r o a d3 r equ i re the p r ior approval of the M i n i s t ry of F inance un le ss they take the fo rm of a cap i tal inc rease r e s u l t i ng f r om re inve s tment of und i s- t r i b u t ed p ro f i t s; the f u ll or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of such i n v e s tm e n ts also requ i res the prior approval of the M i n i s t ry of F inance un less the ope ra t ion involves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had previously been app roved as cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment abroad. Fore ign d irect inv e s tm en ts in the Cen tral A f r ican Em p i r e4 must be declared to the M in is ter of F inance un le ss they t ake the fo rm of a cap i tal increase re su l t ing f r om r e i n v e s tm e nt of u n d i s t r i b u t ed p ro f i ts; the Minister has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declara- t ion d u r i ng wh ich he may request pos tponemen t. The f u ll or pa r t ial l i q u i d a t i on of direct inves tmen ts in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re mu st also be declared to the M i n i s t e r, un le ss the ope ra t ion involves the re l inqu ish ing of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as c o n s t i t u t i ng a direct inve s tment in the Central A f r ican Emp i r e. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inv e s tm en t s, whe ther these are Central A f r i c an Empire '•'* I r i c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh f o r e i gn companies that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re and those m ade by b ranches or sub s id i a r i es ab road of companies in the Central A f r i c an Emp i re. A I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp ire t h at a re d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er f o r e i gn con t rol and those made by b r an ch es or subs id ia r ies of f o r e i gn companies in the Cen tral A f r i c an Emp i re. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE inv e s tm en ts abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in the Central A f r i c an Emp ire, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each opera t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are de f ined as inv e s tm en ts imp ly ing control of a company or en te rp r ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not cons idered as d irect inv e s tm en t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the cap i tal of a company whose shares are quo ted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fore ign secu r i t ies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re requ ires pr ior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in i s ter of F inance. Exempt f r om a u t h o r i z a t i o n, however, are ope ra t ions in connec t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Govern- m e nt and (2) shares s im i l ar to securities whose issu ing, adv e r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re has prev ious ly been au tho r ized. Bo r row ing abroad by physical or j u r i d i c al persons, wh e th er pub l ic or pr iva te, whose no rm al residence or reg is te red off ice is in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, or by b ranches or subs id ia r ies in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re of j u r i d i c al persons whose registered office is abroad, requ i res p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in i s t er of F inance. The fo l low ing a re, however, exempt f r om th is au tho r i- z a t i o n: ( 1) loans c o n s t i t u t i ng a direct inv e s tm ent abroad for wh ich pr ior approval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans d irec t ly connec ted w i th the rende r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial t ran sac t ions e i ther between the Cen tral A f r i c an Emp i re and coun tr ies abroad or between fore ign coun tr ies, in which those persons or firms take pa r t; (3) loans con trac ted by regis- tered bank s; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The con t rac t ing of loans re fe r red to under (4) that are f ree of au tho r iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Off ice of Foreign F inanc ial Relations w i th in 20 days of the opera t ion, unless the total out- s t and ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lend ing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whose no rmal residence or registered office is in the Central A f r i c an Emp i re, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r i c an Emp ire of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom th is au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans gran ted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the to tal amount ou t s tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. The mak- ing of loans that are f ree of au thor iza t ion, and each r ep aym ent the reon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations w i th in 20 days of the opera- t ion except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62 /355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by O rd inance No. 69 /47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, indu s t r i a l, tou r is t, ag r i cu l tu r a l, and m in ing en te rp r ises (bo th fo re ign and domes t ic) established in the C en t r al A f r i c an Emp i re a re gran ted, under certain cond i t ion s, a reduc t ion in du t ies and taxes on the import of spec if ied e q u i pm e n t; in add i t ion, ce r ta in enterprises receive exemp t ion f r om direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferen- t i al t r e a tm e nt in accordance w i th wh ich f iscal and other p r iv i leges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in new en te rp r ises or in the expans ion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Reques ts for app roval for p re fe ren t ial t rea tment must be s u bm i t t ed to the M in i s ter of Indu s t ry, who is the Chair- man of the Inves tment Commission which considers the app l i c a t ion. If a positive decision has been given by the Comm iss ion, the proposed au tho r iza t ion is submitted to the Counc il of M in is te rs. P re fe ren t ial trea tmen ts A and C are g ran ted by decree issued by the Council of M in is te rs. P r e f e r en t i al t r e a tm ent B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the fo rm er Equatorial Customs Un ion upon the recommenda t ion of the Council of M in is ters. Gold Res iden ts are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in the Central A f r i c an Empire. Impo r ts and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun t ry requ i re a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, impo r ts and exports are made by an authorized pu rcha s ing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are ( 1) impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) impo r ts and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles con ta in ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t i c l e s ). Both licensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are subject to customs declaration. Cer- ta in companies have been off ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Impor t, and Export of Gold and Raw D iamonds. Changes during 1978 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control W i th the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France ( and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Terr i tor ies), and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- t ions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Emp i re, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other coun tr ies, except Chad itself, are considered fore ign countries. The Office of the M in is ter of Finance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply supervises bo r row ing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, adver t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inwa rd and ou twa rd direct invest- men t; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also adm in is tered by the M in is ter of Finance, who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty in part to the au thor ized banks. All exchange t ransac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries must be effected th rough authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Economy, P l ann ing, and Transpor ta t ion. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account coun t ry, settle- men ts w i th France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are made in CFA f rancs, French f ranc s, or the cu r rency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other coun tr ies a re u s u a l ly made th rough co r re spondent banks in France lT he CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in Chad is issued by the B a n q ue des E ta ts de 1 'A f r ique Cen t ra le (BEAC) and is legal t end er also in Cam- eroon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp i re, Congo, and Gabon. in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs main- ta ined by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports f rom countries in the former French Franc Area and from EEC countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC coun tr ies outside the former French Franc Area are sub ject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the M in is ter of State in Charge of the Economy, Planning, and Transportation on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for impor ts f rom non-EEC countries outside the former French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles f rom countries w i th abnormal competi- tive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for impor ts of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom EEC countries, countries in the former French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified impor ts f rom neighboring countries not belonging to the fo rmer French Franc Area ( the Libyan A rab J am ah i r iy a, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 m i l l ion a year in each direction for a single impo r ter may be made through compensation transac t ions. All import transac t ions va lued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to fore ign countries must be domi- ciled w i th an au tho r ized bank. Import licenses entitle impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are subm i t ted to the au tho r ized bank. Forward cover for imports from fo re ign coun t r ies is perm i t ted only for specified com- modities and requ ires the prior appoval of the Office of the M in i s ter of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are pe rm i t ted f r e e ly; those to other countries are subject to app rova l. For m a ny types of payment the approval a u t h o r i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonres iden ts in the fo rm of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countrie's may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a t r ip, for any number of trips a year. For pilgrimages to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to fore ign coun tr ies, there is a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a m ax imum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a tr ip; the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply may approve addi- tional amoun ts. Travelers to fore ign coun tr ies may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank- notes. Travelers to other countries may take out any am o u nt in BEAC bankno tes. Non res ident travelers may take out fore ign bankno tes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry in add i t ion to amoun ts rem i t ted f rom fo re ign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equ iva lent Of CFAF 150,000, in add i t ion to a m a x im um of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the fo rmer French Franc Area requ i re licenses. Specified exports to the L ibyan A r ab J am ah i r iy a, N iger ia, and Sudan may be made th rough compensation t ran sac t ion s. Exports of cotton are the monopo ly of the Societe Co tonn iere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD ). Export t ran sac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun t r ies must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currenc ies o ther t h an those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered. Export proceeds noma l ly must be received w i th in 180 days a f t er the a r r ival of the commod i t ies at the ir des t ina t ion. The proceeds must be collected, and be su r rende red if received in a fo re ign cu r rency, w i th in one mon th of the due da te. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om t ransac t ions in inv is ib les w i th France (as de f ined abov e ), Monaco, and Opera t ions Account coun t r i es may be re ta ined. A ll am o u n ts due f rom resi- dents of other coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income ea rned in those coun t r i es f r om fo r e ign assets, m u st be collected and, if received in fo r e ign cu r rency, be su r rende red w i t h in two mon ths of the due date. Resi- 96 dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of payment. Foreign banknotes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are f ree of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonres iden ts that are held in Chad by residents or nonres iden ts must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable or suspended inso far as they would be con trary to the exchange control regu la t ions) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- men t, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or in t roduc t ion of fore ign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments ab road2 require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply irrespective of the method of financing; the fu ll or par- t ial l iqu id a t ion of such inves tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct invest- ments in Chad3 requ ire the pr ior approval of the Minis- ter of F inance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply unless they take the fo rm of a mixed-economy enterprise. The fu ll or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the M in is ter. Both the mak ing and the l iqu id a t ion of direct investments, whether these are Chad ian inves tmen ts abroad or fore ign investments in Chad, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days f o l l ow i ng each operation. Direct investments are defined as inv e s tm en ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. The issu ing, adve r t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in Chad requires prior authorization by the M in i s ter of F inance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply. Exempt f r om au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connec- 2 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough fo re ign companies that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in Chad and those made by branches or s u b s i d i a r i es abroad of compan ies in Chad. :i I n c l u d i ng those made by companies in Chad th at are d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er fo re ign con trol and those made by branches or sub- s id ia r ies in Chad of fo re ign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Chad ian Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, adve r t is ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale in Chad has p rev ious ly been au tho r ized. Borrow ing abroad by physical or j u r i d i c al persons, whe ther pub l ic or pr iva te persons, whose no rmal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subs id ia r ies in Chad of ju r id i c al persons whose regis- tered office is ab road, requ i res pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the M i n i s t er of F inance, Bu i ld ing s, and Supp ly. The fo l low- ing are, howeve r, exempt f rom th is au tho r i z a t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a d irect inves tment abroad for wh ich p r ior app roval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans d i rec t ly connec ted w i th the rende r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of comme rc ial t ransac t ions e i ther between Chad and coun t r ies abroad or between fo re ign coun t r i e s, in wh ich these persons or f irms take pa r t; and ( 3) loans other th an those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou t s t and ing of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, w i th an in te rest ra te no h igher t h an 7 per cent and a m a t u r i ty of two years or less. The con t rac t ing of loans re fe r red to u n d er (3) th at a re f ree of au tho r i z a t ion, and each r e p a ym e nt the reon, mu st be declared to the M in i s ter w i t h in 30 days of the ope ra t ion. Lend ing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whe ther pub l ic or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or sub s id ia r ies in Chad of ju r id i c al persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requ i res prior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s ter of F inance, Bu i ld ing s, and Supply. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this authoriza- t ion: ( 1) loans d i rec t ly connected w i th the rende r ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of commerc ial transac t ions either be tween Chad and coun t r ies abroad or between fo re ign coun tr ies, in wh ich these persons or firms take pa r t; and (2) other loans, when the total amount out- s t and ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lende r. The m a k i ng of loans re fe r red to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each r ep aym ent thereon, must be declared to the Minister w i th in 30 days of the ope ra t ion. Commercial banks must m a i n t a in in Chad a specified m i n im um propor- t ion of the ir assets. U n d er the Inve s tment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whe ther domestic or fo re ign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- t ion f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of p re fe ren t ial treat- ment, in accordance w i th which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms inves t ing in speci- fied new indu s t r ies or in the expans ion of existing ones. Requests for p re fe ren t ial t rea tment must be submitted to the M in is ter of State in Charge of the Economy, CHAD P l a n n i n g, and T ranspo r ta t ion, who, a f t er exam in ing the documen ts, t r an sm i ts them to the Invesment Commis- sion. A f t er an op in ion has been given by that Com- m iss ion, the project is subm i t ted to the Council of M in i s te r s. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000 and 20,000, which are legal ten- der. Res iden ts who are not producers of gold may not hold unwo rk ed gold un less specifically au thor ized. Impo r ts and expor ts of gold, whe ther unwo rked or re f ined, requ i re pr ior au tho r i z a t ion by the Office of the M in is ter of F inance, Bu i ld ing s, and Supply and by the D i rec to ra te of M in es and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt f r om this requ ire- m e nt are ( 1) impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t i es and (2) impor ts and exports 'of m a n u f a c t u r ed ar t ic les con t a in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold ( su ch as go ld - f i l led or gold-plated a r t i c l e s ). Expo r ts of unwo rk ed gold and of raw d iamonds (as we ll as domes t ic purchases and sales of bo th) are the monopo ly of an app roved Office for Purchases, Sales, Impo r t s, and Expo r ts ( B A V I E ), wh ich is a pr iva te com- pany. Unwo rk ed gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt impo r ts of gold are subject to cus toms d e c l a r a t ion. Changes during 1978 March 3. New pena l t ies were specified for noncom- p l iance w i th ex is t ing exchange and t rade regulations. New regu la t ions were issued rega rd ing prior authoriza- t ion and repo r t ing r equ i r em en ts for direct investment and l e n d i ng operations w i t h in Chad as well as by Chad ian res iden ts abroad. A ll such operations would requ i re pr ior au thor iza t ion by the Ministry of Finance, B u i l d i n g s, and Supp ly, except ( 1) loans received of an amount equ iva lent to no mo re than CFAF 10 million, and (2) loans abroad of an amount equ iva lent to no more th an CFAF 5 m i l l ion. April 24. The exemption f rom ob ta in ing prior author- iza t ion for loans received of an amount equ iva lent to no more than CFAF 10 m i l l ion was amended to require also that the in terest ra te on the loan not exceed 7 per cent, and that the m a tu r i ty be no greater than two years. July 13. Foreign exchange allocations for travel to fo re ign countries were ad jus ted as follows: (1) for tourist trave l, the allowance per t r ip was increased f r om CFAF 175,000 to CFAF 200,000; (2) for busi- ness travel, the allowance per t r ip was increased from CFAF 400,000 to CFAF 500,000; (3) the maximum amount of BEAC bankno tes that might be taken out of the coun t ry was raised to CFAF 30,000; and (4) the add i t ional amount of fore ign exchange (not declared upon en t ry) that might be taken out by nonresidents was raised f rom the equ iva lent of CFAF 100,000 to CFAF 150,000. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System Administration of Control The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso. The exchange ra te of the Chilean peso is set by the Central Bank of Chile and is ad jus ted per iod ica l ly. The authori- ties publish in advance a schedule of da i ly exchange rates of the Ch i lean peso w i th respect to the U.S. dollar. For 1978 the schedule implied a depreciation of the Chilean peso of 17.6 per cent du r ing the course of the year. On December 29, 1978 the exchange rate for the U.S. do l lar, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, was Ch$33.94 per US$1. On that da te the Cen t ral Bank's buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar were Ch$33.77 and Ch$34.11, respectively, per US$1. The Cen t ral Bank may apply an exchange d i f f e r en t i al of up to 0.5 per cent of the o f f ic ial ra te on purchases and sales of exchange. The Banco del Estado, comme rc ial banks, exchange houses, brokers, and o ther au thor ized entities may f ree ly establish the ir exchange rates; their com- missions are subject to a service tax of 20 per cent. Exchange rates for currencies o ther t h an the U.S. do l lar are not off ic ia l ly quo ted. Exchange rates for the currenc ies of A rgen t ina, Bolivia, B raz i l, Paraguay, Peru, and U r u g u ay are established f ree ly. Banks and au tho r ized entities operate in other currenc ies w i th quo ta t ions based on the b u y i ng and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar in ma rke ts abroad. No taxes or sub- sidies are at present applied to purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. The Cen tral Bank issues, for sale to the public th rough the bank ing system, bearer certificates denom- ina ted in U.S. dollars (certificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEPAC s ) ,1 which may be used for impo rt p aym en ts or other paymen ts or as co l la teral for the open ing of impo rt letters of credit, but may not be used as a means of comp ly ing with the repa tr ia t ion requ i remen ts for receipts f rom exports of goods and services. The certificates are valid for two years f rom the date of issue; w i th in this period, the Central Bank makes ava i lab le to the owner or holder, upon his request, the sum in U.S. dollars stated on the certificate provided it is to be used for the above purposes. On or a f ter the ir m a tu r i ty date, the certificates are redeem- able in pesos at the exchange rate prevailing on the due date. Banks and stockbrokers can purchase them from the Central Bank, either for the account of their cus- tomers or the general pub l ic or for the ir own account, at the exchange rate in effect on the date of issue, plus such p rem ium or m inus such discount as may be estab- lished by the Central Bank, plus a 2 per mill commission charge. Chile formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect f rom Ju ly 27, 1977. 1 The issue was d iscon t inued from Feb rua ry 1, 1979. 98 The Foreign Trade Depar tment and the Department of In te rna t ional Transactions of the Central Bank are responsible for the operation of the exchange control system. The supervision of copper exports and all impor ts of the copper indus t ry has been delegated to the Ch i lean Copper Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zue la (except those in respect of specified commodities and any impor ts va lued at less than US$3,000 f.o.b. wh ich are effected under a simplified registration pro- cedu re) must be made through accounts maintained w i th each o ther by the Central Bank of Chile and the cen t ral b ank of the coun t ry concerned, w i th in the f r am ew o rk of the mu l t i l a t e r al c lear ing system of the La t in Ame r ican Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Se t t lemen ts w i th the Dom in ican Repub l ic must be made th rough c lea r ing accounts established under a reciprocal credit ag reemen t. Settlements w i th other countries take place in specified conver t ib le currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a List of Prohibited Imports, which con- ta ins on ly a few commodities. Prior to shipment, all impor ts valued at over US$3,000 f.o.b. must be regis- tered w i th the Central Bank, wh ich is empowered to reject import applications under specific circumstances, according to Law No. lb.101. Impor ters may purchase spot exchange as soon as the ir import applications have been approved, and the sh ipp ing documen ts have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require prior au tho r iza t ion of the credit terms by the Central Bank. V i r tua l ly all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. or f.o.b. value, depend ing on the terms of the transaction, and all impor ts are subject to a ma r i t ime tax of 3 per cent of the f re ight costs; the registration tax is offset against the applicable import duty. A value-added tax of 20 per cent is levied on the sum of c.i.f. value and import du ty. Payments for Invisibles Central Bank authorization is required only for those payments for invisibles that are in excess of the estab- lished limits, and for transactions for which no basic allocation has been set. Na tu ral or legal residents may purchase up to US$1,500 each 30 days for "extraordinary remittances"; this amount is not cumulative. The estab- lished limit for tourist travel (in addition to fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a person a trip for travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to neighboring countries and the equivalent of US$3,000 for travel to other countries. Insurance activities are reserved to Chilean companies or fore ign companies au thor ized to operate in Chile. T rans fe rs of insurance p r em iums by companies that are not authorized are permitted only exceptionally. There are limits on pay- ments for s tudy abroad, and for medical purchases of a noncommercial character. At the end of 1978 the basic allocation for f am i ly rem i t tances remained sus- pended. Transfers in excess of the l im i ts and those in respect of transactions for wh ich no basic allocation has been announced requ ire the prior au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank. The au tho r iza t ion is provided upon presen ta t ion of appropriate documen ta t ion. For some invisibles the Central Bank must approve a transfer application (solicitud de giro)', the only docu- mentation required for invisibles that are not covered either by the approval au tho r i ty delegated to author- ized comme rc ial banks or by a solicitud de giro, is an application fo rm (carta peticion) addressed to the Cen- t ral Bank th rough an au tho r ized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All commod i t ies may be f ree ly exported. All exports va lued in excess of US$3,000 mu st be registered w i th the Foreign Trade Depar tment of the Central Bank (w i th the Chilean Copper Commission for copper), and the proceeds of expor ts are sub ject to su r render requ i remen t s. Commerc ial b anks are au tho r ized to pur- chase ce r ta in fo re ign exchange proceeds spot f rom expor ters. Rece ip ts f rom exports of the large copper m i n es must be deposited in a special fore ign currency account at the Cen t ral B a n k, and sales of fo re ign exchange to meet expenses in local currency must also be e f fec ted w i th the C en t r al B ank. Most expo rt proceeds sub ject to su r render requ i re- men ts mu st be repa t r ia ted w i t h in 300 days f rom the da te of sh ipmen t, and su r rende red w i t h in 10 days t h e r e a f t e r, d ep end ing on the commod i ty be ing exported, but for spec if ied goods th is period may be extended. However, expo r te rs are p e rm i t t ed to repu rchase up to 10 per cent of export proceeds for t r av el expenses and c e r t a in o ther purposes, w i t h in a ce i l ing of US$100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles In g e n e r a l, f o r e i gn exchange proceeds f r om inv i s ib les mu st be s u r r e n d e r ed w h en r e q u i r ed by a legal d ispos i- t ion. Such is the case for comm i s s ion s, proceeds f r om i n s u r a n c e, and o th er bene f i ts re la ted to me rchand i se t rade. There a re no s im i l ar ru les conce rn ing the proceeds f r om roya l t ies and copy r ight fees, f am i ly rem i t- tances, the s u r p l us f o r e i gn ex ch ange f r om t ravel allo- ca t ion s, proceeds f r om i n s u r a n c es u n r e l a t ed to t rade, and o ther income e a rn ed ab road. CHILE Capital Capital inf lows are free, but most outflows are restricted. All new fore ign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the tak ing up of lines of credit w i th foreign corre- spondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d i f fe rent arrangemen ts depend ing on the pur- pose and type of the inves tmen t, as follows: ( 1) Ar t ic le 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977, s t ipu la tes that capital brought into the country in the fo rm of fore ign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold f ree ly th rough authorized banks when the investor ( ind iv idu al or corporation, national or for- e ign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. Capital can be repatriated af ter three years but if it originated in a foreign borrowing, it may be repatriated if it has remained in Chile for an average du ra t ion of at least 24 months.2 The interest rate must not exceed specified limits. Repa tr ia t ion normally is allowed on ly in accordance w i th the amortization sched- ule established at the t ime of reg is tra t ion. Neverthe- less, it is perm iss ib le to app ly for extensions, which are gran ted for a m i n im um period of 90 days. (2) A r t ic le 15 of the same decree provides that the Execu t ive Comm i t tee of the Central Bank may author- ize the use of fo re ign credit w i thout any m in imum period of r ep aym en t. The fore ign exchange may be used for paymen ts abroad and is not required to be sold to the Cen tral Bank. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of Ju ly 7, 1974 (modified by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Inve s tment Law, establishes a regime both for fo r e ign exchange t r an s f e rs and long-term capital invest- m en t. Au tho r i z a t ion to make a fo re ign investment in Ch i le is g r an t ed by the Foreign Inves tment Committee th rough a f ixed- term con tract con ta in ing unde r tak ings r eg a rd ing the ph a s ing of the inves tment program that w i ll n o rm a l ly not exceed eight years for m in ing and three years for o ther projects. Inves tmen ts of less than US$5 m i l l i on may be approved by the Executive Sec- r e t a ry of the Comm i t tee, except when connected w i th pub l ic u t i l i t i e s, commun i c a t ion s, and areas usually reserved for s ta te en terpr ises. There are no limitations on p ro f it rem i t tance s. Cap i tal may be repatriated a f ter th r ee yea rs. Foreign investors can opt for a 49.5 per cent to tal co rpo ra t ion income tax over a period of ten years, or sub ject themse lves to the tax system appli- cab le to domes t ic co rpo r a t ions ( c u r r e n t ly 48.5 per c e n t ). Any fo r e ign cred i ts invo lved mu st be au thor ized by, or reg is tered w i t h, the Cen t ral Bank. Foreign capi- tal wh ich en te red Ch i le pr ior to the p romu lga t ion of Decree-Law No. 600 c o n t i n u es to be subject to the r e g u l a t i o ns p r e v a i l i ng on the da te of en t ry. - Use of the c a p i t al for the pu rpose of r e p a y i ng deb ts to the b a n k i ng sys tem does not im p ly r e p a t r i a t i on w i t h in a sho r ter per iod of t ime. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents may free ly hold and negotiate gold in any form in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, includ- ing registration w i th the Central Bank. Changes during 1978 During the year, f u r t h er reductions in import tar iffs authorized by Decree No. 1192 of December 3, 1977 were implemented, with the aim of u n i f y i ng v i r tua l ly all ra tes at 10 per cent by June 1979. January 12. Circular No. 2779 provided that exchange cover must be secured for import payments classified under cobertura corriente (i.e., not on a deferred basis) within 180 days instead of 360 days. There was provision, however, for the Central Bank to grant exemptions in certain cases. January 30. Circular to Commercial Banks No. 1500 authorized commercial banks to contract external cred- its under the f ramewo rk of Article 14 (Decree No. 1272 of 1961, as incorpora ted in Decree No. 471 of 1977) for re lend ing in local currency. Recourse to such loans was pe rm i t ted up to 25 per cent of paid-up c ap i t al and reserves of each b ank, but no more than the equ iv a l ent of 5 per cent of pa id-up capital and reserves could be conver ted in to local cu r rency in any ca lendar m o n t h. The global l im it on commerc ial bank indeb tedne ss to fore ign banks and correspondents ( i n c l u d i ng Ar t ic le 14 l iab i l i t ie s) was raised f rom 150 per cent to 160 per cent of pa id -up cap i tal and reserves. Should th is global l im it be exceeded, the en t ire stock of such l iab i l i t ies wou ld be sub ject to a reserve require- m e nt of 2 per cent in J a n u a ry 1978, 4 per cent in Feb- r u a ry 1978, and 8 per cent f rom March 1978 onward. February 3. C i rcu lar No. 2797 announced a da i ly schedule of exchange rates that would app ly f rom Feb rua ry 6 to December 31, 1978. Du r ing this period, the peso was schedu led to dep rec ia te f r om Ch$28.91 per US$1 to Ch$33.95 per US$1, or by 17.6 per cent for the year as a whole. February 23. C i rcu lar No. 2808 provided that insti- t u t i o ns au tho r ized to engage in fo re ign exchange t rans- ac t ions were perm i t ted to sell up to US$500 in fore ign exchange once every 30 days to n a t u r al or legal resi- den t s, for "ex t rao rd ina ry rem i t tances ." A resident's r ight to r em it wou ld not be c um u l a t i v e. April 12. C i r cu l ar to Comme rc ial Banks No. 1517 of the Sup e r in t end en cy of B a n ks and F inanc ial In s t i tu- t ions au tho r ized commerc ial b anks to prov ide fo re ign exchange to cover costs re la t ing to impo r ts (e.g., com- m iss ions and c omm u n i c a t i on cha rges) w i thout pr ior au tho r i z a t ion f r om the Cen t ral B ank, provided that the re levant impo r ts had been reg is tered. April 19. C i rcu lar No. 2834 removed color television sets f r om the l ist of p roh ib i ted imports. 100 April 24. Circular No. 1522 of the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions authorized com- mercial banks and the Banco del Estado to exceed both the l im it on Article 14 borrowing and the global l im it on their foreign indebtedness by 20 percentage points (i.e., up to 45 per cent and 180 per cent, respectively, of capital and reserves), provided that this excess represented foreign credits having an average ma tur i ty of at least 36 months. The global limit on foreign indebtedness of development banks of 400 per cent of capital and reserves might be raised to 500 per cent of capital and reserves on the same basis. May 11. By Circular No. 2854 commissions arising f rom export activity and interest premiums or the cost of guarantees incurred by foreign buyers or by foreign exporters in regard to bids or proposals were added to the list of payments for invisibles which the com- mercial banks m ight rem it without prior approval f rom the Central Bank. May 11. Circular No. 2855 raised f rom US$500 to US$1,500 the amount which ins t i tu t ions authorized to engage in fo re ign exchange were permitted to sell to residents for "extraordinary remittances" w i th in a 30-day period. May 12. The paymen ts agreement between Chile and the People's Repub l ic of China was terminated. May 25. Circular No. 2863 authorized commercial banks and the Banco del Estado to extend credit lines to foreign correspondent banks to be used exclusively to f in an ce Ch i lean exports; such credits m ight have a term of up to 180 days f rom the date of payment of the corresponding letter of credit. June 1. Circular No. 2867 increased the period w i th in wh ich export receipts must be surrendered f rom 150 days to 300 days a f t er the date of sh ipmen t. For goods exported "under cons ignmen t" or "under condition," the corresponding period was extended f rom 180 days to 330 days. June 22. Circular No. 2880 provided that imports of new vehicles fa l l ing under headings 87.01-87.05 of the Brussels ta r i ff nomenc la ture no longer needed au tho r iza t ion f r om the M in is try of Transport and approval f rom the Central Bank in order to qua l i fy for exemp t ion f rom the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit. June 22. C ircu lar No. 2881 authorized the commer- c ial banks and the Banco del Estado to transact stand-by le t ters of c red it as an add i t ional means to guarantee paymen ts due f rom t ransac t ions in the commodity f u t u r es m a rk e t. July 13. C i rcu lar No. 2891 provided for several am e n dm e n ts to the compend ium of Guidelines on I n t e r n a t i o n al Exchange. Authorized bank ing institu- t ions were perm i t ted to sell fo re ign exchange for pay- ment of interest and commissions on external credits w i thout f i l ing a t ran s fer application w i th the Central B ank. Foreign creditors that had encountered breaches ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of p aym en ts ob l ig a t ions wou ld be p e rm i t t ed to convert in to fo r e ign exchange the proceeds rea l ized f r om forced l i q u i d a t i on of assets. Prof i ts f rom c ap i t al t r an s a c t ions cou ld be r em i t t ed when rea l ized; p rev iou s ly, such rem i t- tances could be made o n ly on an a n n u al basis. Subject to cer ta in requ i remen ts, commercial banks were au thor- ized to sell fo r e ign exchange in respect of the repa t r ia- t ion of d irect f o r e i gn inv e s tm ent and of related p ro f i t s, in t e r e s t, or d i v i d e n d s, w i t h o ut m a k i ng a t r a n s f er app l i- ca t ion to the C en t r al B a n k. July 27. C i r c u l ar No. 2895 raised f rom 1.5 percen t- age po in ts to 3 pe rcen tage po in ts the m a x im um pre- m i um over the New Yo rk p r ime ra te t h at could be charged by b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i o ns f or im p o rt f i n a n c i ng on a co l lec t ion (cobranza) basis. August 10. C i r c u l ar No. 2905 prov ided t h at w h i le im p o rt p a ym e n ts m ade t h r o u gh Ch i le 's LAFTA accoun ts s h o u ld c o n t i n ue to be m ade in U.S. d o l l a r s, the impo rt documen ts concerned m ight be d enom in a t ed in other spec if ied cu r renc ie s. August 17. C i r c u l ar No. 1549 of the Sup e r in t end en cy of B a n ks and F i n a n c i al I n s t i t u t i o ns au tho r i z ed banks a nd f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns w h i ch con t r a ct e x t e r n al cred i ts u n d er A r t i c le 14 of the Law of I n t e r n a t i o n al Exchange to re lend the proceeds to o t h er b a n ks and f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s, d e n om i n a t ed in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy b ut d raw- ab le and r ep ay ab le in local c u r r e n cy at the p r e v a i l i ng ex ch ange ra te. August 22. C i r c u l ar No. 1550 of the Sup e r in t end en cy of B a n ks and F i n a n c i al I n s t i t u t i o ns exemp ted f rom m a r g in r e q u i r em e n ts those ex te rnal c red i ts w i th terms of 36 mon ths or more that were con t rac ted by b a n ks to f i n a n ce au tho r i z ed impo r ts u n d er d e f e r r ed paymen t, and expo r ts of spec i f ied goods. August 25. The 10 per cent su rcha rge on t ravel t icke ts for de s t ina t ions ou ts ide La t in Ame r ica was e l im i n a t e d. September 27. C i r c u l ar No. 2937 eased the adm in- i s t r a t i ve p rocedu res r e l a t i ng to app l i c a t ions for pay- m e n ts for i n v i s i b l es c lass i f ied as " ex t r ao rd in a ry rem i t- tances" and set l im i ts to the a l low an c es for ce r ta in other p aym en ts for inv i s ib l e s, as f o l l ow s: for s t u dy abroad and for med ical pu rchases h a v i ng no comme rc ial va lue up to US$1,500 a m o n th ( p r e v i o u s ly US$300 and US$200, respec t ive ly ); for technical know-how and for sa la r ies of n o n d i p l om a t ic pe rsonnel abroad up to US$5,000; and for m o v i ng and i n s t a l l a t i on expenses abroad up to US$10,000. CHILE October 11. C i r cu l ar No. 2951 reduced the number of i tems on the l ist of used vehicles subject to the 10,000 per cent advanced impo rt deposit. December 14. C i r cu l ar No. 2980 provided that expo r ts v a l u ed up to US$3,000 wou ld not requ ire prior r eg i s t r a t ion w i th the C en t r al Bank or the Ch i lean Copper Comm i s s ion. December 14. C i r cu l ar No. 2981 raised the value of impo rt p aym en ts for wh ich fo r e ign exchange might be sold w i t h o ut pr ior au tho r i z a t ion f r om the Central B a nk f rom US$1,500 f.o.b. to US$3,000 f.o.b. December 18. C i r cu l ar No. 1581 of the Superin- t end en cy of B anks and F in an c i al I n s t i t u t i o ns provided t h at b a n ks and f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o ns m ight convert into local cu r rency the proceeds of ex te rnal c red i ts made und er Ar t ic le 14 in amoun ts equivalent to 5 per cent of c a p i t al and reserves or US$2 m i l l i o n, wh ichever is g rea te r. Such i n s t i t u t i o ns we re also au tho r ized to exceed th at l i m it on A r t i c le 14 bo r row ing of 25 per cent of cap i tal and reserves to 60 per cent of cap i tal and reserves, p rov ided t h at the excess bo r row ing repre- sen ted c red i ts h a v i ng an average m a t u r i ty of at least 36 m o n t h s. The l im it on to tal indeb tedne ss of banks to o ther b a n ks and co r responden ts wh ich was exempt f r om the 8 per cent reserve r e q u i r em e nt was raised f r om 160 per cent to 180 per cent of cap i tal and reserves. Th is l im it m ight be exceeded up to 215 per cent of c ap i t al and reserves, prov ided the excess bor- r ow i ng rep resen ted c red i ts h av ing an average ma tu r i ty of at least 36 mon ths (in the case of deve lopment b ank s, th is l im it was raised f r om 400 per cent to 600 per cent of cap i tal and re se rve s ). December 22. Decree No. 1045 of the F inance M in- ister provided t h at the impo rt t a r i ff rates of 115 per cent or 80 per cent app l ied to ce r ta in vehicles and th e ir par ts wou ld app ly on ly u n t il December 31, 1978. The rea f te r, these rates wou ld be 105 per cent and 75 per cent, respec t ive ly, in 1979; 95 per cent and 70 per cent in 1980; 80 per cent and 65 per cent in 1981; 70 per cent and 60 per cent in 1982; and a single rate of 55 per cent wou ld be app l ied in 1983 and the rea f te r. December 29. C i rcu lar No. 2996 announced the schedu le of d a i ly exchange ra tes for 1979. D u r i ng that year, the Ch i lean peso was schedu led to deprec ia te f rom Ch$33.97 per US$1 to Ch$38.96 per US$1, or by 12.8 per cent. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System1 The cu r rency of the Repub l ic of China is the New Ta iwan Do l lar. U n t il Ju ly 1 1, 1978 the new Taiwan do l lar was pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, at NT$38 per US$1. On Ju ly 11, 1978 a managed f loa t ing ra te sys tem was in t roduced and for the t ime be ing the exchange ra te was set at NT$36 per US$1. On December 29, 1978 the o f f ic ial buy ing and se l l ing ra tes for the U.S. do l lar were NT$35.95 and NT$36.05, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for cer ta in o ther cu r renc ie s2 are also off ic ia l ly posted, w i th d a i ly quo t a t ions based on i n t e r n a t i o n al cur- rency trends. Currenc ies for which ra tes are not offi- c ia l ly posted may be accepted by au tho r ized banks ("appo in ted b a n k s " ), and the ra tes are ca lcu la ted in accordance w i th fo re ign ma rket quo ta t ions. With cer- t a in exceptions, earners of fo r e ign exchange must sell it to banks appo in ted by the Cen t ral Bank of China. There is no exchange ma rke t. The appo in ted banks clear the ir exchange t r an s a c t ions w i th the Cen tral Bank on the fo l low ing business day. Forward exchange deal- ings may take place in deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies con- ce rn ing fo r e ign exchange and t rade controls. Foreign exchange and t rade ma t te rs are en t ru s ted to the Minis- tries of F inance and Economic A f f a i rs and the Central Bank. The M in i s t ry of F inance has general jur isd ic t ion over fore ign exchange laws and regu la t ions, and is in charge of gove rnment rem i t tances. The Foreign Exchange Depa r tment of the Cen tral Bank is responsible for the overall management of fo re ign exchange, and for the superv is ion of the appo in ted banks. The Central Bank also licenses private rem i t tances and capital move- ments. The Board of Foreign Trade of the M in i s t ry of Economic A f f a i rs coord ina tes indu s t r ial and t rade poli- cies, inc lud ing those re la t ing to the impo rt regime and export promo t ion, and is in charge of the issuance of 1 W i th e f fect f rom F e b r u a ry 1, 1979 the a u t h o r i t i es of the Repub l ic of Ch ina took the fo l low ing measu res: (1) A fo r e ign exchange market was es tab l ished in wh i ch the exchange r a te for the U.S. dollar would be p e rm i t t ed to f loat w i t h in p r ed e t e rm in ed d a i ly l im i t s. (2) Exchange rates for c e r t a in o ther cu r r en c i es wou ld be established da i ly by appo in ted banks in accordance w i th the t r ends in i n t e r n a t i o n al cu r r en cy m a r k e ts and the re la t ionsh ip of the U.S. dollar against the new Ta iwan dollar. (3) E a rn e rs of fo re ign exchange wou ld not be r e q u i r ed to su r r end er their e a r n i n gs to the C en t r al Bank. Ins tead they must open passbook accounts in fo r e ign cu r r en c i es w i th the appo in ted bank s. Holders of fo re ign cur- rency may d r aw on these accoun ts to e f fect p e rm i t t ed t rade - re la ted and other paymen ts. They may also sell the ir ho ld ings in the fo re ign ex- change m a r k e t. (4) Ea rne rs of U.S. do l lars may open t ime deposit accoun ts d enom in a t ed in U.S. dollars. (5) Fo rwa rd cover fac i l i t ies may be ex tended by the appo in ted banks in all cu r renc ies. Fo rwa rd cover in U.S. dollars wou ld con t inue to be a r ranged by the Cen tral Bank. - Au s t r a l i an dollars, deu tsche m a r k, Hong Kong dollars, pounds s te r l ing, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. 102 impo rt and export licenses. By delegation, the Appli- ca t ion Rece ipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens app l ica t ions for import licenses and issues the licenses; for most goods, however, import app l ica t ions and licenses are screened and issued by 21 appo in ted banks, in c lud ing the ir branches. Export app l i c a t ions are screened, and export permits are issued, by 41 appo in ted banks, inc lud ing the ir branches. Most f o r e i gn exchange t ran sac t ions are conduc ted through appo in ted banks. Prescription of Currency Export rece ip ts must be ob ta ined in Aus tra l ian dol- lars, deu tsche m a rk, Hong Kong dollars, pounds ster- l i n g, Singapore do l lars, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. dollars. Cu r renc ies not o f f ic ia l ly posted may be accepted by the appo in ted b anks but must be converted in to posted cu r renc ies in exchange ma rke ts abroad. The Central Bank supp l ies fo re ign exchange^ in the fo rm of any of the posted currenc ies for m a k i ng paymen ts to residents of fo re ign coun tr ies. Nonresident Accounts The Repub l ic of Ch ina's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear d is t inc t ion between residents and non res iden ts. As a consequence, persons who would no rm a l ly be considered nonresident are granted t r e a tm ent not essentially d i f f e r ent f rom that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange con trol ma t te r s. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are res iden ts of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as o ther accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regu la t ions do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accoun ts held in the name of residents of fo re ign countries. Res iden ts may ma in ta in currency accounts in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars as fo l lows: holders of fo re ign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of rem i t tances f rom abroad or of money orders or other negotiable in s t rum en ts drawn on fore ign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accoun ts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be w i t h d r awn in the or ig inal cu r rency or in new Taiwan do l la rs, a f t er conversion at the official buy ing rate. Bal- ances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad f ree ly, w i th the exception that foreign exchange that or ig ina ted in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts and For- eign Currency Accounts are subdivided into interest- bea r ing t ime deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments 3 Most impor ts requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses. Appo in ted banks have au tho r i ty to screen impo rt app l ica t ions for most items on the permissible list (see be low ), to issue import licenses on beha lf of the Board of Foreign Trade, and to m ake the necessary fo re ign exchange ava i lab le; these goods are au tom a t i c a l ly approved for an import license. For o ther commodities subject to license, license app l ica t ions are screened, and impo rt licenses are issued, by the App l ica t ion Receipt and Dispatch Center of the Board of Foreign Trade. The holder of an impo rt license is en t i t led to ob ta in the necessary fore ign exchange f rom an appo in ted b a n k. Impor ters of goods on the permissible l ist may enter i n to contracts on documen ts aga inst payment ( D / P ), documen ts against acceptance ( D / A ), or usance letter of credit terms (credit terms of less than 180 days may be approved by appointed banks, wh i le longer terms requ ire approval by the Cen tral B a n k ). For impor ts on a letter of credit basis, an exchange settlement cor- responding to 15 per cent of the letter of credit must be made w i t h in 28 days of app roval of the license; for bu lk impo r ts sp e c i a l ly approved by the M i n i s t ry of Econom ic A f f a i r s, the se t t lement r e q u i r em e nt is 10 per cent. This advance s e t t l em e nt r e q u i r em e n t, the so-called per- f o rm a n ce depos i t, is a c o n d i t i on for the issuance of a le t ter of cred i t. Im p o r ts f r om c omm u n i st coun t r i es a re proh ib i ted in p r i n c i p l e. The a u t h o r i t i es l icense and check impo r ts f r om Hong Kong in order to induce impo r te rs to ob ta in c e r t a in impo r ts d i rect f r om the c o u n t ry of p roduc t ion and to con t rol impo r ts f r om the People's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a; in a d d i t i o n, c e r t a in commod i t ies a re not per- m i t ted to be impo r ted f r om Hong Kong, J a p a n, Macao, M a l a y s i a, and S ingapo re. Impo r ts f r om J a p an of color t e l ev i s ion sets and i ron and steel sc rap a re p roh ib i ted. A p p l i c a t i o ns for im p o r ts f r om J a p an of m a ch in e ry v a lu ed at over US$200,000 for each i n d i v i d u al order r e q u i re the a p p r o v al of the Board of Fore ign Trade. Impo r ts of 318 i tems on the p e rm i s s ib le list (see be low) a re a l lowed o n ly when the goods o r i g i n a te in Eu rope and N o r th Am e r i c a. Impo r ts a re d iv ided i n to th r ee g roup s: ( 1) p roh ib i t ed, ( 2) con t ro l l ed, a nd ( 3) p e rm i s s ib l e. T he p roh ib i ted im p o r ts comp r ise na rco t ics and other goods cons idered so c i a l ly u n d e s i r a b l e. I t ems on the con t ro l l ed l i st may be im p o r t ed o n ly by f a c to r i es and end users. The con t ro l led l i s t4 comp r ises a rms and amm u n i t i o n, w a r s h i p s, poison- ous chemicals, some l u x u ry goods and less essential items ( s u ch as c e r t a in Ch inese l u x u ry foods, c e r t a in med ic ine s, gold, and s i l v e r) and goods sub ject to dome s t ic regu la- t ion and a l loca t ion. C e r t a in k i n ds of goods of t h is type a re at t im es im p o r t ed by g o v e r nm e nt agencies, w h i ch :! Special r e g u l a t i o ns a p p ly to im p o r ts i n to the t h r ee expo rt process ing zones. 4 G e n e r a l ly sub ject to r e s t r i c t i ve l i c e n s i n g, but licenses a re g ran ted l i b e r a l ly w h en the goflds conce rned a re for e q u i p p i ng n ew f a c i l i t i e s, e.g., ho te ls f or t he t o u r i st t r ad e. REPUBLIC OF CHINA o f fer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a government monopo ly organ iza t ion, which is also responsible for domestic d is t r ibu t ion of these commodities. Goods on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be imported by both end users and traders. Manufacturers app ly ing for licenses for raw materials are encouraged to give preference to locally produced supplies. On Decem- ber 31, 1978, of 16,165 classified import items, 17 were on the prohibited list, 379 were on the controlled list, and 15,769 were on the permissible list. A general (cover ing) licensing procedure applies in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, manufacturers and other direct end users are gran ted au tho r iza t ion a n n u a l ly for the importation of listed i tems specified by va lue and by quan t i ty. Exchange for such impo r ts is obtainable au toma t ica l ly each t ime the impo r ter presents the general approved license at an appointed bank. Furthermore, an automatic approval system is applied to most items on the permissible list; on December 31, 1978, on ly 187 items on the permissible l ist requ i red app roval by the Board of Foreign Trade, w h i le a ll others cou ld be impo r ted und er the au toma t ic app rov al system. U n d er th is system, impo r te rs may o b t a in fo r e ign exchange at any appointed b a nk by sub- m i t t i ng impo rt licenses wh ich a re au toma t ica l ly approved. On December 31, 1977, the system applied to 14,942 i tem s, and on December 31, 1978, to 15,582 i tems. Special r egu l a t ions app ly to seven commodities nor- m a l ly impo r ted in bu lk sh ipmen ts .5 These commodities are sub ject to a n n u al quotas and p r io r i ty must be given to Ch inese f lag vessels for the ir impo r ta t ion. Depend ing on the in tended use, goods may be imported by one of the th r ee m a in groups of impo r te r s: govern- m e nt t r a d i ng agencies, qu a l i f i ed p r iva te traders, and end users and m a n u f a c t u r e r s. The impo rt of crude oil is res t r ic ted to the Chinese Pe t ro leum Corpora t ion. The C e n t r al Trust of Ch ina is the m a in gove rnment t rad ing agency, h a n d l i ng impo r ts for gove rnment and m i l i t a ry o rg an i z a t ion s, pub l ic enterprises, and other customers. A n o t h er gove rnment t r a d i ng agency is the Ta iwan Sup- ply B u r e a u, wh i ch is in charge of imports for the T a iw an P rov inc ial Gove rnmen t, some local industries, and c e r t a in other customers. F i rms t h at wish to operate as au tho r ized ("regis- te red ") impo r t e rs mu st ob ta in app roval ("reg is tra t ion") f r om the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms must be ope ra t ing in accordance w i th cer ta in laws and have a m i n i m um cap i tal of NT$2 m i l l i on and an "export record" e q u i v a l e nt to more th an US$200,000 in the p r ev ious year. End use rs and m a n u f a c t u r e rs a re pe rm i t ted to impo rt raw m a t e r i a l s, mach ine ry, and rep lacement equ ipm ent needed for t h e ir fac to r ies. In g r a n t i ng licenses to this 5 Soybeans and soybean f lou r, w h e a t, b a r l ey, corn, s o r g h um, rapeseed, and raw co t ton. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA category of impor ter, the licensing authorities take into account such cr i ter ia as production capacity and equip- ment. In processing app l ica t ions for licenses to import capital equ ipment for the cons truc t ion of new plants, the licensing au thor i t ies consider the feas ib i l i ty of the project and its re la t ive pr ior i ty. When the capital goods concerned are ava i lab le f rom domestic sources, import licenses u sua l ly are not issued. Impo r ts to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requ i remen ts (e.g., raw co t ton, wool, and wood for the production of p lywood ). According to the methods of f inanc ing, imports may be d iv ided in to two broad categories: ( 1) impor ts for which exchange is allocated out of official exchange reserves and (2) imports made w i thout recourse to o f f ic ial exchange reserves th at are paid for w i th self- provided exchange or exchange supplied by fore ign investors, fore ign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports ob ta ined w i th se l f -p rov ided exchange are those f inanced by impo r te rs out of th e ir own fore ign exchange obtained by them pr ior to the ir com ing to the Repub l ic of China or o r ig in a t ing f r om exchange receipts exempt f rom the su r render r equ i r em en t. Impor ts are sub jec t, in add i t ion to cus toms du ty, to ha rbor dues of 4 per cent of the cus toms va lue and, for some goods, to a commod i ty tax ad va lo rem assessed on the impo rt v a l ue i n c l u s i ve of cus toms du t ies and h a r b or dues. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les r equ i re approval f rom the Cen t ral Bank. P aym en ts for invisibles d irec t ly related to t rade, such as f r e i g ht and in su r an ce p rem ium s, are p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly wh en the basic t rade t ran sac t ion has been app roved. The t r a n s f er of in teres t, prof i ts, and e a rn ings on au tho r i z ed fo r e ign inve s tmen ts in the R epub l ic of Ch ina may be made w i thout restriction. Res iden ts may at any time make ou twa rd t r an s f e rs up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$1,500 a n n u a l ly for any purpose o ther t h an im p o rt p a ym e n t s; app l i c a t ions for such per- sonal r em i t t an c es a re approved a u t om a t i c a l l y. Fo re ign exchange for paymen ts for c e r t a in other inv i s ib les is a l loca ted on ly up to es tab l ished l im i ts or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to r em it to the ir dependen ts abroad up to 60 per cent of t h e ir m o n t h ly s a l a ry. In cases whe re the sa la ry is exempt f r om income tax und er the cer t if ica te of tax exemp t ion (or the income tax is bo rne by the emp loye r) and /or living expenses of the employee are borne by the employer, the amount to be remitted may be in c r e a s ed by 20 per cen t. Emp loyees of the Gov e rnm ent or of educa t ional i n s t i t u t i o ns may rem it to the ir depend- en ts in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a mon th. M emb e r sh ip fees of f o r e i gn i n s t i t u t i o ns and ce r ta in pay- m e n ts for news services, books, and magaz ines (pe r sonal s u b s c r i p t i o ns for r e f e r en ce pu rpo s e s) a re also approved. Receipts f rom local subscriptions to, and sales of, 104 impor ted newspapers and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film ren ta ls may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses. The remittance of the earn- ings of fore ign entertainers may be approved on a case-by-case basis. The f u ll amount of tuition and living expenses dur ing the first academic year of students s tudy ing abroad may be remitted, and up to US$6,000 a year in the second to sixth academic years, but may be applied for only three times du r ing the five years. Resi- dents are gran ted an allowance for incidental expenses equ iva lent to US$1,500 a person a tr ip for most approved types of t rave l; visas for tourist travel, how- ever, are not no rm a l ly granted to Chinese nationals.6 For business t rave l, an allowance equ iva lent to US$2,200 a mon th for up to three mon ths is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and t icke ts. App l ica t ions for exchange to pay for certain other types of inv is ib les are approved on their merits. Residents leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$8,000 in domestic bankno tes and NT$20 in coin and the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign currenc ies. Nonres ident travelers who have stayed in the Repub l ic less than six mon ths may take with them any u n s p e nt por t ion of the foreign cu r rency which they registered upon en try, and may in addition convert local cu r rency in to fore ign currency by subm i t t ing evidence of prev ious conversion in to local currency. Exports and Export Proceeds7 All exports requ i re licenses, m a in ly in order to ensure the repa t r ia t ion of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued on ly for exports to noncommun i st countries. The re -expo r ta t ion of impo r ted goods is perm i t ted a f ter they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are hand led by gove rnment t r a d i ng agencies. U n d er the te rms of "vo lun ta ry export restraint" agree- men ts conc luded w i th cer ta in countries, quota limita- t ions are m a i n t a i n ed on exports of canned mushrooms, t ex t i le p roduc ts, and non rubber foo twea r. The export of some food s tu f f s, as well as of fer t i l izers, logs, cement, steel, and sc rap of iron and steel, is either prohibited or con t ro l led. M a n u f a c t u r e rs who use imported raw materials to p roduce goods for export are r e fund ed va r ious charges imposed on such raw ma te r ia ls, a f t er the processed goods are exported. These charges inc lude import duties, ha rbor dues, and commod i ty tax. Some preferen t ial t r e a tm e nt is accorded to payers of business tax related to the p roduc t ion of goods for export, provided that the t axp ay e rs s u bm it sa t i s fac to ry proof of such exports; comp le te ex emp t ion f rom the tax is not granted, however. " From J a n u a ry 1, 1979 visas we re in s t i tu ted for tou r ist travel and a f o r e i gn exchange a l loca t ion of US$2,200 a mon th for up to th ree months was established. 7 Special r e g u l a t i o ns app ly to expor ts and re-exports f rom the export processing zones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W i th m inor excep t ions, expor ters are requ i red to s u r r e n d er exchange e a r n i n gs a c c ru ing f r om exports immed ia te ly a f ter their collection (see foo tno te 1 ). Most expo r ts to any p e rm i t t ed de s t ina t ion may be made on a con s ignment or co l lec t ion basis, prov ided th at payment is not deferred for more than 180 days f rom shipment. Sub ject to app rova l, bona f ide g i f ts and commod i ty samp les up to the v a lue of US$500 may be sent ab road. When l e av ing the R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, tou r i s ts a re a l lowed to take out domes t ic p roduc ts v a l u ed up to US$500 w i t h o ut p rov id ing ev idence th at they h ave su r r end e r ed fo r e ign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange su r r end er a r r a n g em e n ts app l i c ab le to pro- ceeds f rom i n v i s i b l es are gene ra l ly s im i l ar to those app l i c ab le to expo rt proceeds (see foo tno te 1 ). In te res t, e a r n i n g s, and p ro f i ts on i n v e s tm e n ts m ade by Chinese inves to rs ou t s ide the c o u n t r y, and o r i g i n a l ly approved by the Inv e s tm ent Comm i s s ion of the M i n i s t ry of Eco- n om ic A f f a i r s, mu st be su r rende red to the b ank s; other- wise, e a rn ings may be re ta ined. P r iva te i nw a rd rem i t- tances may be re ta ined by the rec ip ien ts for deposit in a fo r e ign exchange accoun t. T rave le rs m ay b r i ng in any a m o u nt of fo re ign cu r- rency and e i ther ho ld or s u r r e n d er i t; the amount impo r ted mu st be declared upon en t ry. The impo rt of dom e s t ic b a n k n o t es is l im i t ed to NT$8,000 for each t r av e l e r; a l icense f r om the M in i s t ry of F in an ce is r e q u i r ed for im p o r t i ng a la rger am o u n t. Capital Investments by nonresidents ( in c lud ing overseas C h i n e s e) may be made in cap i tal e q u i pm e nt or raw m a t e r i a l s, or t h r o u gh the t r a n s f er of fo re ign c u r r e n cy to the R e p u b l ic of Ch in a. In acco rdance w i th the Fore ign I n v e s tm e nt Law and the S ta tu te for the En cou r ag em ent of I n v e s tm e n t, new fo r e ign i n v e s tm e n ts app roved by the a u t h o r i t i es a re gua ran teed ( 1) un r e s t r i c t ed t r an s f er of net a n n u al prof i ts or earned in t e r e s t; (2) r ep a t r i a t ion of c a p i t a l, i n c l u d i ng re inves ted e a r n i n g s, two years a f t er comp le t ion of the i n v e s tm e nt p l a n, at an a n n u al rate not exceed ing 20 per cen t, c a l c u l a t ed in r e l a t ion to the inve s ted f u n d s; (3) the r i g ht to re-export invested c ap i t al in i ts o r i g i n al f o rm; (4) f a v o r a b le t r e a tm ent in respect of rezon ing and requ i s i t ion of ag r icu l tu ral land for i n d u s t r i al use; (5) c e r t a in bene f i ts w i th respect to bus iness income tax and im p o rt du t ie s; and (6) com- pensation for exp rop r ia t ion where the fore ign investment cons t i tu tes less than 51 per cent, and imm u n i ty f rom exp rop r ia t ion for 20 years where the fo r e ign inves tment cons t i tu tes at least 51 per cent of the to tal inves tmen t. In add i t ion, fore ign inves tmen ts are g ran ted t rea tment at least as favo rab le as that accorded to new domestic inv e s tm en t s. Laws for the encou ragement of fo re ign inv e s tm en ts p rov ide for add i t ional bene f i ts in specific cases. REPUBLIC OF CHINA To ob ta in the bene f i ts of the inves tment laws, invest- m en ts by non re s iden ts must be made in enterprises such as m i n i n g, c omm u n i c a t i o n s, and m a n u f a c t u r i ng for domes t ic needs. P re fe rence is g iven to fo re ign investors who in t end to produce goods for export or import- sub s t i tu t ion goods. Non r e s id en ts ( i n c l u d i ng overseas Ch inese) who in tend to m a ke i n v e s tm e n ts in stocks in the Repub l ic of China and w ish to t a ke advan tage of privileges prov ided under the f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e nt laws described above, must obtain app roval f r om the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i r s. Pur- chases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through registered brokers. Sub ject to app rova l, d irect inves tmen ts may be made ou t s ide the R e p u b l ic of Ch ina in the fo rm of technical know -how, s em i f in i sh ed produc ts, loca l ly m a n u f a c t u r ed e q u i pm e n t, and r em i t t an c es of f o r e i gn exchange. Appli- c a t ions th at receive sympa the t ic t r e a tm ent inc lude those w h i ch wou ld assist in assu r ing a stable supp ly of raw m a t e r i a ls for domes t ic indu s t r ie s. Po r t fo l io inves tment ab road by re s iden ts who are p r iva te persons is not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Ch ine se n a t i o n a ls who wish to em ig ra te, and fo re ign persons who have settled in the Repub l ic of Ch ina and w i sh to r e t u rn to the ir n a t ive coun t r ies, are not accorded any t r a n s f er f a c i l i t i es in respect of proceeds f r om the l i q u i d a t i on of their assets in the Repub l ic, other than an exchange a l lowance of US$2,000 for each Chinese em i g r a n t. Persons re s id ing ou ts ide the Repub l ic of China who a cqu i r ed in the Repub l ic assets or balances in new T a iw an do l la rs on account of dowries, inheritances, and g i f ts are not no rm a l ly g ran ted the r ight of t ran s fe r r ing them f r om the Republic. Ce r ta in in f lows of sho r t - te rm cap i tal are restricted or p r o h i b i t e d. Domestic banks are pe rm i t ted to hold sho r t - te rm deposits (w i th ma tu r i t ies up to three mon ths) w i th the ir corresponden ts but they are not no rm a l ly per- m i t ted to make longer- term t ime deposits abroad or to a cqu i re fo re ign securities. Gold Producers of gold mu st sell the ir ou tput to registered go ldsm i ths, silversmiths, or jewelers through the Central Trust of Ch in a; gold de l ive red to the Cen tral Trust for sale by auc t ion must have a fineness of 0.995 or above. Any n ew ly produced gold that rema ins unsold must be kept in the cus tody of in s t i tu t ions specifically designated by the Gove rnmen t; at present, only the Central Trust is so designated. Other residents may hold gold in any fo rm and of any fineness, but its use as co l la teral for loans is prohibited. Travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of gold, af ter declar- ing it to the customs upon en t ry; if its weight exceeds 5 sh ih Hang, i.e., 156.25 grams, travelers should apply to the customs for an impo rt perm i t; other imports of gold are con tro l led. Residents may f ree ly take out gold 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA in the fo rm of jewe lry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih liang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Otherwise, exports of gold and gold jewe l ry by trave lers are not normally permitted. Changes during 1978 April 19. The allowance for education abroad was raised f rom US$4,000 to US$6,000 a year f rom the second to the sixth academic year. June 8. Negotiations were completed on a five-year textile agreement with the United States a l low ing for no increase in the Republic of China's textile exports in 1978, but a 6 per cent increase in each of the fo l low ing f o ur years. June 14. The max imum cumu la t ive amount in foreign currency loans available for each enterprise for the import of mach ine ry that could be ref inanced w i th the Cen tral Bank was doubled to US$2 million. June 16. Eight items of non fe r rous metals were added to the list of impor tant indus tr ial raw materials that could be imported w i th Cen tral Bank finance. The term of the financing for these additional items was 360 days and the interest on such fore ign currency loans extended through domestic appointed banks was reduced f rom 11 per cent to 9 per cent; the re f inanc ing cost to the domestic appointed bank was reduced f rom 10 per cent to 8 per cent. June 16. Overseas t ravel allowances were raised. The a l lowance for personal expenses was raised from US$1,200 to US$1,500 a tr ip while for business travel the allowance for living expenses was raised from US$1,500 to US$2,200 a month for up to three months. July 1. The limit on outward transfers that might be made w i thout fo rma l i ty for all payments other than import payments was raised from the equivalent of US$1,000 to US$1,500 annually. July 11. The exchange rate for the new Taiwan dollar was ad jus ted f rom NT$38 per US$1 to NT$36 per US$1. It was announced that in f u t u re the exchange rate wou ld no longer be aligned w i th the U.S. dollar. July 11. Legislation setting up an Export/Import Bank was approved. July 14. The Board of Foreign Trade announced that import restrictions on 1,146 industrial, consumer, and ag r icu l tu ral products would be abolished forthwith. July 28. The customs import tar iff for fiscal 1979 reduced import duties on 983 products and raised rates on 119. The highest rate of du ty in the revised list was reduced f rom 156 per cent to 100 per cent. August 11. The Central Bank announced that the U.S. dollar might be accepted in forward exchange dealings in add i t ion to the deutsche ma rk, the pound sterling, and the Swiss f r an c. September 6. The allowance for residents leaving the Republic of China was raised from NT$2,000 in domes- tic banknotes to NT$8,000. The allowance for import of domestic banknotes was also raised to NT$8,000. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of ad jus t ing the peso in small amoun ts at relatively short intervals, tak ing into account: (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its ma jor trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's fore ign exchange reserves; (3) export performance; and (4) Colombia's overall balance of paymen ts position. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the med ium of exchange certificates, which are tra led in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at vary ing rates of discount. On December 29, 1978 the rate in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, was Col$41 per US$1. On the same date new ly issued exchange certificates were traded on the stock exchange at Col$37.71 per US$1. Buying and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other cur- rencies1 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th da i ly quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. All exchange t ransac t ions are effected th rough the Bank of the R epub l ic (the cen t ral bank) or the authorized banks. There are other e f fec t ive exchange rates wh ich result from (1) a 16 per cent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates being gran ted at four d i f fe rent percentages for most export proceeds; (3) three deposit requ iremen ts, one of wh ich has to be f u l f i l l ed at the cer t if ica te ma rket ra te in the official ma rke t, and (4) the imposition of rem i t tance tax at two d i f fe rent rates on cer ta in service payments. The peso equ iva lent of the Gove rnmen t 's exchange receipts f rom the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the Bank of the Repub l ic's accoun t ing rate of Col$38 per US$1; the Gove rnment purchases exchange for a ll pub l ic debt paymen ts and other expend i tures inc luded in the na t ional budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Repub l ic s tands ready to sell exchange w a r r a n ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the pub l ic, aga inst p aym ent in pesos at the cer t if ica te m a rk et se l l ing rate on the date of issue. These w a r r an t s, wh i ch are expressed in U.S. do l la rs and have a m a t u r i ty of six mon ths or one yea r, are nego t iab le and may also be exchanged for exchange cer t if ica tes p rov ided that the ho lder presents an exchange l icense. W i t h in t h e ir period of v a l i d i t y, w a r r a n ts may also be sold to the Bank of the R e p u b l ic for pesos, at the c e r t i f i c a te m a r k et b u y i ng ra te on the date of repu rchase. W a r r a n ts bear in te rest at 1 A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e lg i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an do l l a r s, D a n i sh k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J ap an e se y en, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i ld e r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, Swed ish k r o n o r, Swiss f r a n c s, and Vene- z u e l an bo l iva re s. 7 per cent per annum. Warrants held until after maturity cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted in to exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the maturity date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, a f ter setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Repub l ic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct invest- ment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the Na t ional P lann ing Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of prof i ts, d iv idends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration w i th the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for app ly ing penalties for any viola- t ion of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies wh ich it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for impo rt paymen ts. Paymen ts and receipts are nor- ma l ly effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and export- ers are also free to use quoted currencies.1 Settlements for commerc ial t ransac t ions w i th countries with which Colombia has b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen t2 must be made th rough clearing accounts in accordance with the p rov is ions of the p a r t i cu l ar bilateral payments agreement. - B u l g a r i a, G e rm an Democ ra t ic Republic, H u n g a r y, Poland, Ro- m a n i a, Spa in, and Yugo s lav ia. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- ta ined w i th in the f ramewo rk of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements w i th Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and member coun- tries of the Central Amer ican Common Market. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are au thor ized to receive short- term deposits in fore ign currency f rom physical or ju r id ical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are f ree ly available to the ho lders, but any fore ign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain au tho r iza t ion f rom the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import l is t. Impor ts are classi- fied either as goods whose import is subject to prior l icens ing by INCOMEX, or as goods that may be imported f ree ly w i thout license a l though sub ject to reg is tra t ion. In the la t ter category, there is a global free list applicable to all coun t r ies, a N a t ion al List app l icab le to LAFTA coun t r ies on ly, and special lists app l icab le only to less developed LAFTA member coun tr ies and to members of the Andean Pact. A d is t inc t ion is d rawn between reimbursable and nonre imbursab le impor ts. The term re imbu rsab le impo r ts covers impo r ts that mu st be paid for w i t h in ce r ta in t ime l im i t s, i.e., for raw ma te r ia ls and con sumer goods, 150 days, and for cap i tal goods f rom th ree to f ive years; they in c lude impo r ts under b i la te ral p a ym e n ts agreemen ts and those that are settled through m u l t i l a t e r al clearing accounts. Non re imbu r sab le impor ts consist ma in ly of aid impo r ts under g ran ts, commodities con s t i tu t ing pa rt of a d irect inves tmen t, and goods financed by cer ta in types of long- term loans. All import reg i s t ra t ions by pub l ic sector agencies are screened by IN COM EX to de te rm ine whe ther local sub s t i tu tes are av a i l ab l e. Some impor ts are sub ject to price control a p p l i ed by the D iv is ion of In t e rn a t ion al Prices of INCOMEX. Impo rt licenses for cer ta in items are not n o rm a l ly issued; these in c lude a rms and h a b i t - f o rm i ng d rugs, ce r ta in food s tu f f s, ce r ta in tex t i les and garments, and j ew e l ry. Both impo rt licenses and reg i s t ra t ions are v a l id for s ix mon th s, except for impo r ts of ag r icu l tu ral and livestock p roduc ts whe re the v a l i d i ty period is th r ee mon ths. Impo rt l icenses can be ex tended for suc- cessive th ree -mon th periods, whereas reg is t ra t ions of f r ee impo r ts can be extended on ly once for up to three mon th s. P r ior r eg i s t r a t ion of the im p o rt t r an s a c t ion at INCOM EX is r e q u i r ed for a ll impo r ts o ther t h an those classified as 108 "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is Col$200 plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue (with a minimum of US$4). Advance import payments deposits (depositos anticipados para pago de importaciones) of 35 per cent of the registered amount must be made in Colombian currency with an authorized bank before customs clearance in order to obtain exchange licenses. This deposit can be con- stituted in its entirety w i th exchange certificates obtained in the stock exchange. Importers then receive non- negotiable, interest-free deposit certificates for foreign payments (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 24 months. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial payment of the import transaction (within any max imum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic at the original exchange rate. The following are exempt f rom advance import pay- ments deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special impo r t -expo rt arrangemen ts (the Va l le jo Plan); food s tu f fs for direct con sump t ion; direct imports for the m i l i ta ry and the police; impor ts f rom Eastern Europe and Spain; impo r ts f rom countries w i th which reciprocal credit a r rangemen ts are in force (LAFTA countries, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Cuba, and member countries of the Central Amer ican Common Market); imports f inanced w i th loans f rom in te rna t ional organizations; books, newspapers, and magazines; and capital goods and raw ma ter ia ls. There is also an advance deposit (consignation) wh ich has to be lodged, at the off ic ial rate for exchange cer t if ica tes, p r ior to app ly ing for an exchange license. The rates of deposit are 40 per cent for products for immed ia te use ( inc lud ing raw materials and consumer goods) and 60 per cent for other import paymen ts. If the transac t ion is also sub ject to the advance impo rt paymen ts deposit, the 40 per cent and 60 per cent rates are ca lcu la ted on the f u ll amount of the transaction. Impo r ts f inanced w i th special credit l ines from the Bank of the Repub l ic are exempt f rom advance payment depos i ts as are f u n ds f rom the national budget. A pr ior exchange license issued by the Exchange Office is requ ired for paymen ts for imports. The Depa r tment of Deve lopment Credit in the Bank of the R e p u b l ic can approve paymen ts terms of up to seven years in special cases. Impo rt du t ies are ca lcu la ted at the "Ministry of F inance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the prev ious mon th, as deter- m ined by the M in i s t ry of F inance). In add i t ion to cus toms du t i e s, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equ al to 5 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue, the proceeds of wh i ch go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt f rom t h is tax are impo r ts by pub l ic en t i t ies; goods of LAFTA ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution origin; impo r ts under the Va l le jo P lan; d ip loma t ic, consu lar, and s im i l ar imports; g i f t s; and impo r ts des t ined for the f ree port of San Andres y P rov idenc ia or e f fec ted t h r o u gh the port of Leticia. W i th the above ex emp t ion s, impo r ts are also sub ject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c . i . f. v a lu e, whose proceeds accrue to the o r d i n a ry budget of the N a t i o n al Gov e rnm en t. A ll impo r ts are sub ject to a con su l ar invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv i s ib l es a re made at the exchange ce r t i f ica te rate. Adv an ce deposits m u st be made prior to a p p l y i ng for exchange licenses at a rate of 80 per cent for f r e i g ht p a ym e n ts for impo r ts and at 60 per cent for all other inv i s ib les except for travel expenses, which are f ree f rom any deposit r e q u i r em e n t. The depos it r equ i r em ent on f r e ight paymen ts for impo r ts can be f u l ly sa t is f ied w i th exchange ce r t i f ica tes acqu i red on the stock exchange. In p r in c ip l e, a ll p aym en ts for i n v i s i b l es a re sub ject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the R e p u b l ic may make p aym en ts abroad on beha lf of c red it in s t i tu- t ions w i thout p r ior exchange license; commerc ial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange d irec t ly for the purpose of foreign t rave l; banks may also t r a n s f er w i t h o ut p r ior app roval p aym en ts for ce r ta in o ther cu r rent inv i s ib l es ( i n c l u d i ng f r e i g ht p aym en t s, b a n k i ng comm iss ions, in t e r e st on supp l i e r s' c red i t, and the m o n t h ly a l lowances of s tud en ts s tudy ing abroad w i th gove rnment suppo r t) and for the service on reg is tered fo re ign loans t a k en up by the p r iv a te sector. Exchange a l loca t ions for t ravel ab road a re u su a l ly l im i t ed to US$80 a day for adu l t s, not to exceed US$2,800 a year (ha lf of these am o u n ts for ch i ld ren und er 12), but these l im i ts may be raised to US$260 a day and US$23,400 a year when the travel may be e spec ia l ly b en e f i c i al to the coun t ry. T ran s fe rs to pro- fess ional and techn ical persons u n d e r t a k i ng courses abroad are gene ra l ly restricted to US$450 a m o n th for up to 12 mon th s, w h i le for o ther s tud en ts the ce i l ings range up to US$500 a mon th, depend ing on the cost of l i v i ng in the coun t ry concerned. R em i t t an c es for the suppo rt of re la t ives abroad are l im i t ed to US$250 a mon th for each bene f ic ia ry, a l though the Exchange Office is empowered to g rant larger a l loca t ions. The t r a n s f er of prof i ts acc ru ing to fo r e ign inves tors is l im i t ed to 20 per cent of the inve s tment per a n n um. Foreign tou r is ts who have stayed in Co lomb ia for a period not exceeding three mon ths may, on leav ing the country, purchase fo re ign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of th e ir board ing pass. A rem i t- tance tax of 12 per cent is app l icab le to a number of cu r rent paymen ts; for t ran s fe rs of profits, the tax is 20 per cent. Co lomb ian n a t i o n a ls and res ident fo re igne rs a re requ i red to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. COLOMBIA Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts of c rude oil and cer ta in other commod i t ies are p roh ib i t ed, and exports of ce r ta in food s tu f fs are sub j e ct to quo tas. Exports of ce r ta in other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Ins t i tu te de Mercado Ag ropecua r io ( !D EMA ). No export licenses are requ ired. P r ior app l ica t ion for reg i s t ra t ion is requ i red, however, for all expor ts except crude oil, samples, and Colombian p roduc ts in noncomme rc ial quan t i t ie s. When registering an export t ransac t ion, exporters must prov ide INCOMEX w i th e i ther a personal gua ran tee in pesos (but w i thout depos i t ing any f u n d s) or a b ank gua ran tee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amoun t, calculated at the M i n i s t ry of F inance exchange rate. The periods for s u r r e n d e r i ng export proceeds no rma l ly are as follows: (1) for co f fee, w i t h in 20 days f r om the date of registra- t ion of the export; and (2) for other goods, generally w i t h in 270 days of reg is t ra t ion. However, longer terms are p e rm i t t ed for goods sold on a comm iss ion basis, books, magaz ines and other p r in ted ma t ter, capital goods, and other goods t h at no rm a l ly requ ire more ex tended p aym ent terms. The Bank of the Repub l ic is empowered in ce r ta in cases to r e t a in a por t ion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the expor ter of any p r o d u ct to repay debts for impo r ts u n d er the V a l l e jo P l an. A ll exchange pro- ceeds f rom expor ts, except those f r om the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo ( ECO P E TRO L ), mu st be surrendered to the Bank of the R epub l i c; ECOPETROL is pe rm i t ted to retain part of its export proceeds abroad for the settlement of its impo r t s. On s u r r e n d e r i ng the ir export proceeds to the Bank of the Repub l ic, exporters of commod i t ies other than coffee, raw ca t t le hides, or petroleum and petroleum p roduc ts receive tax credit cer t if ica tes (certificados de abono tributario or CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings sur- rende red, converted at the M i n i s t ry of F inance exchange rate. Th is ra t io is 0.1 of 1 per cent, 5 per cent, 9 per cent, or 12 per cent, depend ing on the commod i ty; the rates are ca lcu la ted on domestic va lue added for exports u n d er the Va l le jo P lan. These certificates, wh ich are f ree ly nego t iab le and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six mon ths a f t er issuance for the payment of income tax, customs du t ies, and sales taxes. The su r render of fo re ign cu r rency earned by exports is effec ted by exchanging the fo re ign cu r rency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the stock exchange. In the case of exchange certificates issued against proceeds f rom exports of coffee, cotton, flowers, live ca t t le, beef, gems, and precious metals, a discount of 9 per cent is applied if the certificates are presented to the bank ing system for redemption w i th in 120 days of issue. Certificates issued against export proceeds f r om other m inor exports are redeemed by the Fondo 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (PROEXPO) without de Promocion de Exportaciones that discount. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set f rom time to time by the Monetary Board.3 Exports of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: ( 1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed a f ter deduction for freight and insurance at US$259 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Export- ers pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 16 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the Na t ional Coffee Fund and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Depar tmen tal Committees of Coffee Growers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Ex- porters must either surrender without payment (in the form of un trea ted coffee) the equivalent of 80 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio t a x ); the tax must be paid to the Federation either in k ind or in pesos. (5) Exporters receive Coffee Savings Bonds w i th a face va lue of Col$4 for each k i logram bought by the Na t ional Federa- tion of Coffee Growers; these bonds bear interest at 18 per cent per annum and have a ma tur i ty of three years. (6) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Manag ing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange certificates which can be sold in the stock exchange. If they are sold to the banking system within 120 days of issue, a discount of 9 per cent is applied. For surrenders in respect of gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 60 per cent advance payment deposit on all outflows which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. Cer- tain advance repayments of registered private sector debt, including debt contracted to finance capital goods imports, are exempt from the deposit requirement. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank 3 At the end of 1978 soluble coffee was subject to a m in imum sur- render price of US$8 per kilogram. no residents,4 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports require prior approval by the Na t ional Planning Department, and capital for the petroleum industry or for other m ineral exploration in add i t ion requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The t rans fer of profits is limited to 20 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beginning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting f rom invest- ments of ou t s tand ing importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the in te rna t ional money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 per cent, the balance may be rem i t ted in subsequent years; where the profits were earned (and not remitted) prior to the coming into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the additional remit- tances must not exceed 3 per cent a year. New invest- men ts may be gran ted exemptions f rom import du ty and f rom advance deposit requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian ma jo r i ty participation. In this respect, "subregional" participations (i.e., f rom member countries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian participations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial insti- tu t ions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact and to "national" or "mixed" com- panies. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or established companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a m in imum maturity of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. Such loans normally are per- mitted only when mining companies are involved or juridical persons who are established in Colombia as representatives of foreign firms and are contributing to the construction of public works of national interest. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign cur- rency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the 4 Suppliers' cred i ts of a once-for-all n a tu re also requ ire registra- t ion; the ir repayment is au thor ized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest ra te ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London in terbank offered rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Government, the following are also required: prior authorization by the Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consulta- tion with the In terpar l iamen tary Committee on Pub l ic Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts invo lv ing royalties, commissions, trade- ma rks or patents, and s im i lar a r rangemen ts must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the bene- f ic iary to make t rans fe rs abroad. They requ i re approval by the Royalties Comm i t tee before they can be regi- stered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad mu st surrender to the Bank of the Repub l ic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or l iqu ida t ion of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private i n d i v i d u a ls are not no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Gold N a t u r al and ju r id i c al persons may trade in Colombia in gold co ins for n um i sm a t ic purposes o n l y. W i th t h is excep t ion, the Bank of the Repub l ic a lone is en t i t led to purchase, sell, ho ld, impo r t, or export gold. Impo r ts of nonmone ta ry gold are not n o rm a l ly u n d e r t a k e n. The Bank of the Repub l ic purchases locally produced gold at the average price p reva i l ing in the London and Zu r ich marke ts d u r i ng the p reced ing week; m i n i ng com- pan ies hav ing fo re ign cap i tal p a r t i c ip a t ion a re paid 50 per cent in fo re ign cu r rency on p resen ta t ion of exchange licenses e n t i t l i ng them to m ake paymen ts ab road for services, d iv idend s, cap i tal repaymen t s, taxes, etc.; the rema in ing 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are pa id in pesos at the certificate ma rket exchange rate. When se l l ing t h e ir gold to the Bank of the Repub l ic, the producers receive tax credit cer t if ica tes e q u i v a l e nt to 5 per cent of the v a l ue of the gold sold. The certificates held by sma ll p roduce rs are bought by the Bank of the R epub l ic in pesos at the ir ma rket v a l u e. In add i t ion, the Bank of the Repub l ic levies an ad va lorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the m ine r. The Bank of the Repub l ic makes domestic sales of gold for indu s t r ial use e i ther d irect or t h r o u gh the Co lomb ian M i n i ng Assoc ia t ion at a p r ice e q u i v a l e nt to the average quo ta t ion .in gold m a rk e ts abroad du r ing the p rev ious mon th; th is price is conver ted in to pesos at the p r e v a i l i ng se l l ing ra te of exchange ce r t i f ica tes on the date of sale. The assay and r e f i n i ng houses and the m i n i ng com- pan ies p rodu c ing gold are u n d er the supe rv i s ion of the Supe r in tendency of Exchange Con t ro l. In add i t ion, the m i n i ng companies m u st ob t a in a license f rom the Supe r in tendency in order to c a r ry on t h e ir opera t ions. The Bank of the R e p u b l ic f rom t ime to t ime s tr ikes commemo ra t ive gold co ins w h i ch are legal tende r. COLOMBIA Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1978 The M in is t ry of Finance exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was fixed as follows dur ing 1978: Until January 4, Col$35.16; Janua ry 5-February 4, Col$35.34; February 5-9, Col$35.81; February 10-March 4, Col$38.04; March 5-April 4, Col$38.14; April 5-May 4, Col$38.32; May 5-June 4, Col$38.51; June 5-July 4, Col$38.66; July 5- Augu st 4, Col$38.81; August 5-September 4, Col$38.94; September 5-October 4, Col$39.12; October 5-Novem- ber 4, Col$39.49; November 5-December 4, Col$39.96; and December 5-January 4, 1979, Col$40.41. January 1. In accordance w i th Presidential Decree No. 2374 of October 31, 1974, there was a fu r ther reduc t ion of 1 percentage point to 16 per cent in the exchange tax on coffee exports. January 1. Cer ta in changes in the system of the tax credit certificates (CATs) granted on nontraditional exports became effective. Eligible products were rear- ranged in order to grant CATs at higher rates to labor- in t en s ive indus t r ies and industries dominated by small and medium-sized firms, and products for mass con- sump t ion were assigned lower rates in order to ensure adequa te domestic supplies. The rate structure was changed f rom 0.1, 5, and 8 per cent to 0.1, 5, 9, and 12 per cent of export value or domestic value added. In genera l, indu s t r i al products became eligible for CATs at 9 per cent or 12 per cent of export va lue (or domestic v a lue a d d e d ), wh i le many ag r icu l tu ral and livestock produc ts and gold became eligible for the 5 per cent rate. January 16. The import du ty on equipment designed to con t rol env i ronmen tal po l lu t ion was lowered to 1 per cent ad va lo rem (M i n i s t ry of Finance and Public Credit Decree No. 39 ). January 18. The discount applied to exchange certifi- cates presented to the bank ing system for redemption w i t h in 90 days of issue was lowered f rom 10 per cent to 7.5 per cent. At the same time, importers were per- m i t t ed to f u l f i ll up to 15 percentage points (against 10 percen tage points p rev ious ly) of the 35 per cent advance import payments deposit w i th exchange certifi- cates. F ina l ly, the 80 per cent advance deposit on impo rt f re ight paymen ts could hence fo r th be constituted in its en t i re ty w i th exchange certificates acquired on the stock exchange (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 1; see also MBR No. 10 /78 ). January 24. A quota of 5,000 metric tons was fixed for the export of sesame seed du r ing the first half of 1978 ( IN COM EX Reso lu t ion No. 008 ). January 30. By Decree No. 175, the M in is try of F inance and Pub l ic Credit liberalized the regime of m i n or impo r ts, i.e., impo r ts not r equ i r ing registration or prior license. Thus, up to 10 un i ts (against 6 units p r ev iou s ly) of specified drugs, books, or unexposed films w i th an ex-fac tory va lue of up to US$500 (US$100 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA prev ious ly) could be imported up to twice a mon th; urgen t ly needed spare par ts for industrial machinery and equ ipment could be imported up to an ex-factory va lue of US$10,000 (US$5,000 p rev iou s ly ). Also inc luded were up to 10 un i ts (aga inst 6 un i ts previously) of certain specified spare parts, sc ien t if ic appliances, and transportation equipment, as well as chemical agents in packages not exceeding a weight limit of 5 kilograms, and rad ioac t ive isotopes for the Ins t i tu te of Atomic A f fa i rs w i th an ex-factory va lue up to US$2,000 (US$1,000 p rev iou s ly ). Persons ava i l ing themselves of the m i n or impo rt regime hence fo r th would be required to register w i th the General Customs Directorate. It was also announced that exchange licenses for m inor imports wou ld be issued by the Exchange Office upon presenta- t ion of the commerc ial invoice (MBR No, 3 of Febru- ary 1, 1978 ), and the General Cus toms Directorate issued add i t ional ins truc t ions on Ma rch 3, 1978 (Gen- eral R e g u l a t i on No. 0324 ). February 3. The Exchange Office pub l ished the exchange control regu la t ions gove rn ing indu s t r i al and comm e r c i al f ree zones (Gene ral C ircu lar No. 6 ). February 3. Impo rt du t ies on va r ious chemical, elec- t r ica l, and lea ther produc ts were lowered (Pres iden t ial Decree No. 0190 ). February 6. PROEXPO was au thor ized to use its resources to promote the export of services, such as tou r i sm (M in i s t ry of Economic Development Decree No. 0 2 1 1 ). February 8. The period w i t h in wh ich the B ank of the Repub l ic was au tho r ized to red iscount up to 90 per cent of loans g ran ted by commerc ial banks to u t i l i ty com- pan ies for the purchase of fo re ign cu r rency needed to service fo re ign loans was extended by one year to December 31, 1978 (MBR No. 6 / 7 8 ). Gu ide l ines on its imp l em en t a t ion were issued by the Exchange Office on March 3, 1978 (Gene ral C i rcu lar No. 12). February 14. Po lyv inyl ch lor ide was sub jec ted to the pr ior l icens ing requ i rement ( !NCOMEX Reso lu t ion No. 0 1 8 ). February 14. Pou l t ry meat (except ch i ck en) was t r an s f e r r ed f r om the list of suspended export items to t h at of free exports ( !NCOMEX Reso lu t ion No. 019; see also INCOM EX Re so lu t ion No. 051 /77 of May 3, 1977 ). February 15. The d iscount on u nm a t u r ed exchange certificates was reduced f u r t h er f r om 7.5 per cent to 7 per cent. S imu l taneou s ly up to 25 percentage points ( ag a in st 20 percen tage po in ts p rev iou s ly) of the 35 per cent advance impo rt p aym en ts deposit cou ld hence fo r th be constituted with exchange certificates (MBR No. 10 /78; see also MBR No. 3 3 / 7 8 ). February 16. It was a f f i rm ed that tax cred it cer t if i- cates (CAT s ), economic emergency notes ( PA S ), and tou r i sm d ev e lopm ent ce r t i f ica tes (CDTs) could not be accep ted by the cus toms a dm i n i s t r a t i on in p a ym e nt of cus toms du t ies (Gene ral Cus toms D i rec to ra te Regu la- t ion No. 323 ). 112 March 7. INCOMEX published a list of goods that may be freely imported comprising 2,567 items. All i tems imported for use in Leticia (Amazonas) would con t inue to be considered as free imports (Resolution No. 028 ). March 7. The Foreign Trade Council consolidated all import regulations in one single document (FTC Resolution No. 027 ). The new compilation, which introduced few changes in substance, contained seven chapters, viz., (1) general fo rm requirements and pro- cedure, (2) the register of na t ional producers, (3) valid- ity period and extension of import registrations and licenses, (4) the prior licensing regime, (5) max imum payment terms, (6) advance import payment deposits, and (7) global licenses. While the va l id i ty period for both import licenses and registrations generally remained six months (except for agricultural and livestock imports where it remained at three months), import licenses could henceforth be extended for successive three- month periods whereas registrations could be extended once for up to three months. The coverage of nonreimbursable imports, subject to prior licensing, was extended to five more categories, including imports financed w i th income earned abroad and imports by local gold m in ing companies. The compilation also intro- duced add i t ional criteria for evaluating license applica- tions. On March 20, 1978, INCOMEX issued its own compilation of import regulations including sections on exemptions f rom import duties, nonreimbursable import licenses for petroleum and m i n i ng companies, govern- ment procurement, and indus t r ial and commercial free zones (Reso lu t ion No. 528 ). March 7. The export quota for crude cane sugar for the first ha lf of 1978 was fixed at 36,000 metric tons ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 026 ). April 7. With effect f rom April 8, 1978, the m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was lowered f rom US$313.75 to US$290.00 per 70-kilogram bag (MBR No. 15). May 2. For two years f rom May 15, 1978, a customs d u ty free zone for commercial, cu l tura l, and scientific in terna t ional f a i rs was established in Bogota (M in is try of Economic Deve lopment Decree No. 0787). May 5. Following the com ing into force of the Second Amendment of the Articles of Agreement of the In t e rn a t ion al Mone tary Fund, the Mone ta ry Board abolished the fixed pu rchas ing price of US$42.2222 per troy ounce of domes t ica l ly produced gold. Henceforth, the Bank of the Repub l ic would purchase gold at the average price preva i l ing in the London and Zurich ma rke ts d u r i ng the week preceding the purchase. With re t roac t ive effect f rom April 1, 1978, this price would also fo rm the base for the calculation of the 5 per cent tax cred it cer t if ica te gran ted to local producers of gold (M BR No. 1 9 / 1 7 8 ). May 5. The m a x im um en t i t lemen ts for foreign travel were raised to US$80 a day (w i th an annual ceiling of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution US$2,800) for adu l ts and to US$40 a day (w i th an a n n u al ce i l ing of US$1 ,400) for ch i ld r en up to 12 years of age. The p rev ious l im i ts were US$60 a day (up to US$2,100 a yea r) and US$30 a day ( up to US$1,050 a y e a r ), respec t ive ly. The ce i l ings on t r a v el wh i ch m i g ht be espec ia l ly benef ic ial to the coun t ry were raised f rom US$200 to US$260 a day up to US$23,400 a yea r, compared to US$18,000 p r ev iou s ly. At the same t ime, fo re ign t ravel p aym en ts we re exemp ted f r om the 60 per cent advance deposit in t rodu c ed by MBR No. 47 /77 (M BR N o. 2 0 ). May 10. The M o n e t a ry Board added the A u s t r i an sch i l l ing to the currencies in wh ich paymen ts and receipts of f o r e i gn exchange cou ld be e f fec ted (R e s o l u- t ion No. 2 2 ). May 22. E f fec t ive J u ly 1, 1978, customs d u ty p re fe r- ences for impo r ts f r om member coun t r ies of the A n d e an Pact we re g ran ted on ly on the basis of ce r t i f ica t ion, issued by the e x p o r t i ng c o u n t r y, th at the p rodu c ing f i rm f u l f i l l ed the cap i tal compo s i t ion r e q u i r em e n ts of Deci- s ion No. 24 of the Ca r tagena Ag reement (Decree No. 923 of the M i n i s t ry of Econom ic D ev e lopm en t ). Dec is ion No. 24 reserved cus toms d u ty exemp t ions to im p o r ts p roduced by "na t iona l" or "mixed" own e r sh ip compan ies or by compan ies in progress of t r an s fo rm a- t ion in to "na t iona l" or "mixed" owne r sh ip (C i r cu l ar No. 12103 ). June 5. The expo rt quo ta for c rude cane sugar for the second h a lf of 1978 was fixed at 24,000 m e t r ic tons, compa red w i th 36,000 m e t r ic tons for the f i rst h a lf of 1978 (FTC R e s o l u t i on No. 054 ). On October 18, 1978, t h is q u o ta was inc reased by 12,000 tons (R e so lu t ion No. 1 0 2 ). June 7. MBR No. 25 /78 exempted impo r ts des t ined for the 1978 C en t r al Am e r i c an Games in Medellin f rom the adv an ce im p o rt p a ym e nt deposit requ i remen t. June 12. The Exchange Office published a compre- h en s ive c om p i l a t i on of r e g u l a t i o ns a f f e c t i ng reg i s t ra t ion, e x t e n s i o n, in te re st te rm s, and s e rv i c ing c o n d i t i o ns for d i r e ct f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e n t, p r i v a te loans, and d irect l ines of c red it (General C i r cu l ar No. 26). June 16. W i th effect f r om J u ne 17, 1978, the m i n i- mum s u r r e n d er pr ice for coffee expo r ts was f u r t h er reduced f r om US$290 to US$275 per 70-k i logram bag (MBR No. 27 /78). June 26. By Decree No. 1 195, the M i n i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic C red it added some pha rmaceu t ical d rugs, su rg ical i n s t r um e n t s, and o ther m ed i c in al supp l ies to the list of m inor imports of Decree No. 195/78. June 27. INCOMEX issued supp l em en t a ry ins t ruc t ions on impo rt licenses and reg is t ra t ions, i n c l u d i ng the exemp- t ion of non re imbu r sab le raw m a t e r i al impo r ts f inanced by World Bank loans f r om the m a x im um paymen ts terms l a id down in MBR Nos. 43 /77 and 52 /77 (Postal C i rcu lar No. SI-27). June 28. W i th effect f r om J u ne 29, 1978, the m i n i- mum su r render price for the expo rt of so lub le coffee COLOMBIA was lowered f rom US$10 to US$8 a kilogram (MBR No. 29 /78 ). July 5. The 35 per cent advance impo rt paymen ts deposit r equ i r em ent cou ld h e n c e f o r th be cons t i tu ted in f u ll w i th exchange cer t if ica tes (MBR No. 33). July 11. W i th effect f r om Ju ly 12, 1978, the m i n im um s u r r e n d er p r ice for coffee expor ts was reduced f rom US$275 to US$259 per 70-k i logram bag (MBR No. 35 /78 ). July 12. The FTC l i f ted the ban on exports of rice and fixed an export quo ta of 10,000 me tr ic tons for the second h a lf of 1978 (Re so lu t ion No. 067). July 14. The Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy adopted a special reg ime for direct fo re ign inv e s tm ent in the exp lo ra t ion and exp lo i ta t ion of n ickel deposits. The special regime p rov ided, in t er a l i a, for the un re s t r ic ted rem i t tance abroad of d iv id ends and sales proceeds ( i n c l u d i ng cap i tal ga ins) f r om the l iqu id a- t i on of inv e s tm en ts (Reso lu t ion No. 27). July 14. The FTC fixed a quo ta of 5,000 me tr ic tons for the export of raw b rown sugar in the second ha lf of 1978 (R e so lu t ion No. 071). July 19. The Mone ta ry Board increased the redemp- t i on period w i thout d iscount (termino de vencimiento) for ma tu red exchange certificates f rom 180 days to n i ne mon th s. At the same t ime, it lowered the d iscount app l ied at redemp t ion d u r i ng the rema inder of the v a l i d i ty per iod (i.e., up to two years f rom the date of issue f rom 10 per cent to 5 per cent (MBR No. 3 7 ) ). The m a t u r i ty period (plazo de maduracion} and the d iscount app l ied at redemp t ion be fo re m a t u r i ty rema ined un ch ang ed at 90 days and 7 per cen t, respec t ive ly (see also en t ry for September 13, below). July 26. The impo rt of j u te and sisal became subject to pr ior app roval f r om the Co lomb ian Ag r i cu l tu r al and Livestock I n s t i t u te (ICA), t h us t r a n s f e r r i ng these items to the p r ior l icens ing list (FTC Resolution No. 074). July 31. New vers ions of the Na t ional List for im p o r ts f r om LAFTA coun tr ies and the lists with special concessions for the less developed LAFTA membe r s —Bo l iv ia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and U ruguay— were pub l i sh ed; these were to replace those contained in Decree No. 340 /68, w i th e f fect f rom October 1, 1978 (M i n i s t ry of F inance and Pub l ic Credit Decree No. 1609). July 31. The M in i s t ry of F inance and Public Credit raised impo rt duties on a few cap i tal goods and lowered the d u ty on mach ine ry for meat pack ing to 5 per cent ad va lo rem (Decree No. 1597). August 3. In add i t ion to the quota of 24,000 metric tons for sugar exports authorized for the second half of 1978 (see FTC Reso lu t ion No. 054 of June 5, 1978), 36,000 tons of crude cane sugar could be exported d u r i ng September and October 1978 (Resolution No. 077; see also Resolution No. 102 of October 18, 1978). August 4. The Congress authorized the Bank of the Repub l ic to issue gold and silver coin as legal tender. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA The characteristics and amount of the issue and the conditions of sale were to be s t ipu la ted by the Mone ta ry Board. Seigniorage derived f rom the issue was ear- marked for the In s t i tu te of Na t ional Resources ( I N D E R E N A) and the Colombian Ecological Society to pursue conservationist objectives (Law No. 9). August 22. INCOMEX announced the requ i remen ts for impo r t ing th rough f ree zones passenger automobiles whose impo rt is otherwise proh ib i ted, such as those w i th an f .o .b. va lue below US$5,000 or those w i th more than six cylinders (Postal Circular No. S.I. 040). September 13. The Mone ta ry Board raised the m a tu r i ty period and the d iscount ra te for exchange cer t if ica tes f rom 90 days to 120 days and f rom 7 per cent to 9 per cent, respectively (MBR No. 38). September 19. INCOMEX issued a new comp i la t ion of the cond i t ions for the con s t i tu t ion, ex tens ion, and cance l la t ion of exchange su r render gua ran tees for expor ts o ther t h an coffee (Postal C i rcu lar No. S.E. 027). September 19. The FTC permitted the free impo r ta- tion of grey cement (Resolution No. 095 ). September 21. The M in i s t ry of F inance and Public Credit announced its policy on the g r a n t i ng of tax cred it certificates for 1979 (Decree No. 2067). The ra te s truc ture remained unchanged at 0.1, 5, 9, and 12 per cent of f.o.b. export va lue or domestic value added. While most exports would continue to receive tax cred it certificates at the same rate as in 1978, these wou ld be granted at 5 per cent instead of 0.1 per cent for pork, poultry, cocoa bu t te r, ma ize, rice, and cereal products. The rate for beef, fish and other seafood, chocolate, and some organic chemicals was raised f rom 5 per cent to 9 per cent, and that on processed meat and seafood, confectionery, beverages, liquor, v inegar, optical instru- ments, surgical equipment, pens, pencils, and a few other items was increased f rom 9 per cent to 12 per cent. The rates for soap, motorcycles, and bicycles were raised f r om 0.1 per cent to 9 per cent and f rom 5 per cent to 12 per cent, respectively. September 28. The reduction of the import duty on certain capital goods to 5 per cent, which had been in effect since May 1976, was extended until June 30, 1979. For a few capital goods, however, the import duty was raised f rom 5 per cent to 20 per cent or 65 per cent (Decree No. 2109 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). October 9. The Mone tary Board suspended the use of Coffee Savings Bonds (TACs) for payments abroad (MBR No. 42). In f u t u r e, such bonds could be used by Co lomb ian residents to buy participations in foreign- owned companies, to pay for impor ts of capital goods for ag ro - indu s t r ial or d ivers if ica t ion projects, and to dis- charge cer ta in private fo re ign debt service payments. October 20. The Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy was required to endorse applications by Co lomb ian residents for direct inves tment abroad in financial in s t i tu t ions and insurance companies exceeding US$500,000 before such app l ica t ions could be sub- m i t ted to the Na t ional P lann ing Department. The Na t ional P lann ing Department was required to report to the National Council periodically on the approval of applications for investments up to US$500,000 which did not require prior endorsement (National Council for Economic and Social Policy Resolution No. 2 8 ). October 20. The Monetary Board authorized pay- men ts terms up to seven years f rom the date of the b i ll of lad ing for capital goods financed by financial institu- t ions on the basis of lend ing programs concluded between the Bank of the Repub l ic and in te rna t ional lend ing agencies. Such financing required additionally the approval of the Bank of the Repub l ic's Depar tment for Development Credit (MBR No. 44). November 7. INCOMEX published a new compilation of the export regime; this entered into force on Novem- ber 10, 1978 replacing Resolution No. 051 of May 3, 1977. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of the Comoros is the Comoros Franc, wh ich is pegged to the French f r a n c, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed ra te of CF 1 = F 0.02. The cur- rent buy ing and selling rates for the French f r anc are CF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quo ted and are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket ra te for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control W i th the exception of those r e l a t ing to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not app ly to: ( 1) France ( a nd i ts Overseas Depar tmen ts and Te r r i to r ies) and Monaco; and (2) a ll o ther countries whose i n s t i t u te of issue is l ink ed w i th the French Treas- u ry by an Opera t ions Account (B e n i n, Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun tr ies may be made free ly. All other countries are considered fo re ign coun t r ie s. Exchange con t rol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the In s t i tu te of Issue. The D ep a r tm ent of the P l a n, F inance s, and Me thods superv ises bo r row ing and l end ing abroad, i nw a rd direct inv e s tm en t, and a ll ou tw a rd inve s tmen t s. Pa rt of the app roval a u t h o r i ty in respect of exchange con t rol has been delegated to an au tho r ized bank — the sole comme rc ial bank —and to the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion. A ll exchange t r an s a c t ions r e l a t i ng to fo r e ign coun t r ies m u st be effec ted th rough the au tho r ized b ank or the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the D e p a r tm e nt of the P lan, F inances, and Me thods. Prescription of Currency The I n s t i t u te of Issue m a i n t a i ns an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the F rench T reasu ry; s e t t l em en ts w i th F rance (as d e f in ed a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Op e r a t ions Account coun t r i es a re made in Comoros f r a n c s, French f r a n c s, or the c u r r e n cy of any o ther Op e r a t ions Account coun- t r y. Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll o ther c o u n t r i es a re u su a l ly m ade t h r o u gh co r r e spond ent b a n ks in F rance, in any of the c u r r e n c i es of those c o u n t r i e s, or in F r en ch f r a n cs t h r o u gh Fore ign A c c o u n ts in F rancs. A ll s e t t l em en ts w i th Rhode s ia a nd Sou th A f r i ca a re p r o h i b i t e d. Imports and Import Payments certain other goods is prohibited f rom all countries. The import f rom any source of a number of other commodi- ties is sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. All import trans- actions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th the au thor ized bank. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted. Paymen ts for invisibles to Frahce (as defined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the fo rmer French Franc Area may take out any amount in Comoros banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- h ib i ted. W i th a few exceptions, exports to countries in the fo rm er French Franc Area are f ree of license. Most expo r ts to other coun tr ies requ ire licenses. Proceeds f r om expor ts to fore ign countries must normally be collected w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at th e ir de s t ina t ion. When received in a non-Franc Area cu r rency, they must be surrendered by sale to the au tho r ized bank not later than one mon th a f ter collec- t ion. A ll export t ransac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries mu st be dom ic i led w i th the au thor ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om inv is ib le t ransac t ions with France (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r i es may be re ta ined. A ll amoun ts due f rom resi- den ts of other coun tr ies in respect of services, and income earned f rom fo re ign assets, must be collected and su r rende red, if received in fo re ign currency, within one mon th of the due da te or the da te of receipt. Res ident and non re s ident travelers may br ing in any amount of b ankno t es and coin issued by the Ins t i tu te of Issue of the Comoros, the Bank of France, or any b a nk or in s t i tu te of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of coun tr ies outside the fo rmer French F ranc Area. Im p o r ts of Rhode s ian and Sou th A f r i c an o r ig in a n d / or p r o v e n a n ce a re p roh ib i t ed, and the impo rt of Capital 1 B e l g i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, d e u t s c he m a r k, H o ng K o ng d o l l a r s, K e n ya s h i l l i n g s, M a u r i t i an r u p e e s, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, S o u th A f r i c an r a n d, Swed i sh k r o n e r, Swiss f r a n c s, T u n i s i an d i n a r s, a nd U.S. do l lars. A ll s e t t l em en ts be tween the Comoros and Rhodesia and Sou th A f r i ca a re p roh ib i ted. Cap i tal movements be tween the Comoros and France (as defined above ), 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, f ree of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts f rom such countries normally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment, and all ou tward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts, Q ,, °impOrts and exports of gold in any form require prior authorization and are not normally permitted. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 37, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r r en cy of the People's R epub l ic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 w h i ch is pegged to the French f r an c, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency, at the fixed ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange t ran sac t ions in F rench f r a n c s, between the B a n q ue des E ta ts de I ' A f r i q ue Cen t ra le (BEAC) and comme rc ial b a n ks t a ke place at the ra te of CFAF 50 = F 1. B u y i ng and s e l l ing ra tes for ce r ta in o ther fo re ign cu r renc ies a re also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quo t a t ions based on the f ixed ra te for the F rench f r a nc and the ra tes for the cu r renc ies concerned in the Pa r is ex ch ange ma rke t. P a ym e n ts to F rance and i ts Overseas D e p a r tm e n ts and Te r r i to r ie s, Monaco, and the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt coun- t r i es (see section on A dm i n i s t r a t i on of C o n t r o l, b e l ow ), as w e ll as the pu rcha se of those c o u n t r i e s' b a n k n o t es and t r a v e l e rs checks, are sub ject to a comm iss ion of 0.75 per cen t, w i th a m i n i m um charge of CFAF 75; exempt a re p aym en ts of the State, the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n, and the BEAC, sa la r ies of Congo lese d i p l om a ts ab road, e x p e n d i t u r es of o f f ic ial m i s s ions ab road, scho la rsh ips of persons s t u d y i ng or t r a i n i ng ab road, and debt se rv ice p a ym e n ts due f r om c om p a n i es t h at have e n t e r ed i n to an ag reement w i th the Congo. Most p a ym e n ts to o ther f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es and c red i ts to Fore ign Accoun ts in F rancs are sub ject to a comm i s s ion of 1 per cent or, for f o r e i gn exchange purchased by the D iamond Pu r ch a se Offices, 0.50 per cent; these comm i s s ions are sub ject to a m i n i m um of CFAF 100. There are no taxes or sub- s id ies on pu rchases or sales of fo r e ign exchange. Administration of Control P a ym e n ts to the f o l l ow i ng coun t r i e s, a l t h o u gh sub ject to d e c l a r a t i o n, a re u n r e s t r i c t e d: ( 1) France ( a nd i ts Overseas D e p a r tm e n ts and T e r r i t o r i e s ), and Monaco; and (2) a ll o ther c o u n t r i es whose b a nk of i s sue is l i n k ed w i th the F rench T r e a su ry by an Op e r a t ions Account ( B e n i n, Came roon, t he C e n t r al A f r i c an Em p i r e, Chad, the Comoros, G abon, Ivo ry Coast, M a l i, N i g e r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). S e t t l em e n ts and inv e s tm ent t r an s a c t ions w i th a ll fo r e ign coun t r ie s, howeve r, a re sub j e ct to con t ro l. Fore ign c o u n t r i es a re d e f in ed as a ll c o u n t r i es o ther t h an the Congo. The Off ice of E x t e r n al F i n a n c i al R e l a t i o ns in the M i n i s t ry of F inance supervises borrow ing and lend ing ab road. Exchange con t rol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the M in i s- ter of F inance, who has delegated h is app roval au tho r i ty to the Off ice of Ex te rnal F i n a n c i al R e l a t ion s. A ll exchange t ran sac t ions must be effec ted th rough au tho r- ized banks or the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M i n i s t ry of Comme rce, except those for gold, w h i ch are g r an t ed by the Office of Ex te rnal Financial R e l a t i o n s. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Ope ra t ions Account coun try, s e t t l em e n ts w i th France (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions A c count coun t r ies a re made in CFA f r a n c s, F rench f r an c s, or the cu r rency of any other i n s t i t u te of issue t h at m a i n t a i ns an Opera t ions Account w i th the F rench T reasu ry. Se t t lemen ts w i th the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina are made through special accoun ts e s t ab l i sh ed u n d er a b i l a t e r al p aym en ts ag reemen t .2 Set- t l em e n ts w i th a ll o ther c o u n t r i es a re u s u a l ly made in any of the c u r r e n c i es of those coun t r i es or in French f rancs t h r o u gh Foreign A c coun ts in Francs. A ll se t t lemen ts be tween the Congo and Rhode s ia are p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The r e g u l a t i o ns p e r t a i n i ng to non re s ident accoun ts a re based on those applied in France. The c red i t ing of BEAC b a n k n o t es to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs is pe rm i t ted w h en they have been ma i led to the BEAC agency in B r a z z a v i l le by the fo r e ign correspondent of an au tho r i z ed b a n k. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts f r om a ll sources requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion. All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. There is an ind ica t ive annual import program which dis- t ingu i shes between five zones: (1) the countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UD EAC ); (2) France; (3) other countries of the fo rmer French Franc Area; (4) EEC countries other than France; and (5) all rema in ing countries. All impo r ts under this program require licenses. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a j o i nt quo ta is set for the countries of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are imports for the Govern- ment und er foreign aid and bilateral payments agree- ments, and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (O FNA COM ). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish f rom all sources, certain cotton piece goods f rom Japan, and certain other textiles f rom the People's Republic of China. The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods origi- na t ing in any country outside the former French Franc Area. A ll impo rt t ran sac t ions re la t ing to countries other t h an France (as defined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r c u l a t i ng in the Congo is issued by the B anque des E t a ts de I ' A f r i q ue Cen t ra le (B EAC) and is legal t end er also in Cam- eroon, C en t r al A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, and Gabon. - There are inop e r a t ive paymen ts ag reemen ts w i th Bu lga r ia and North Korea. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Opera t ions Account coun t r ies mu st be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized b a n k. Licenses for impor ts f r om coun- tries other t h an France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun tr ies requ i re the visa of the Foreign Trade Bu reau and the Office of Ex te rnal F inanc ial Re la t ions. The approved import license en t i t les impo r te rs to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the au thor ized bank. A ll impo r ts must be insu red w i th the s ta te in su rance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo ( SARC ). To imp lement th is measu re, the Con- golese Customs Service releases impo r ts on ly a f t er an insu rance ce r t i f ica te issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account coun tr ies are per- m i t ted f ree ly provided they have been declared and are made th rough an au tho r ized in t e rm ed i a ry; those to o ther fo re ign coun tr ies are sub ject to app rova l. For m any types of payment the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to au tho r ized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to t rade are pe rm i t ted f ree ly when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. T rans fe rs of income accru ing to non- residents in the f o rm of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also pe rm i t ted f ree ly when the basic t ransac t ion has been approved. At the end of 1978 ce r ta in cu r rent paymen ts were in arrears. Res iden ts t rave l ing as tour is ts to fo re ign countries o ther t h an France (as de f ined a b o v e ), Monaco, the Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies, or Za ire may ob ta in an exchange a l loca t ion of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- d ren u n d er t e n ), or CFAF 10,000 if the du r a t ion of the t r ip is less t h an 24 hours, for any n um b er of t r ips a year; any fore ign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 r em a i n i ng a f t er r e tu rn to the Congo mu st be su r rende red. For business trave l, there is a special allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 400,000 a t r ip; add i t ional amoun ts may be authorized in appropr ia te cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special fac i l i t ies for travelers to Kinshasa who request no fore ign means of payment other than Za ir ian banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a for- eigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to France (as defined above ), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 if less than 10 years of age) in BEAC banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers going to fo re ign countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, the Opera- 118 t ions Account countries, or Zaire may f ree ly take out up to a m a x im um of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French bankno te s, and bankno tes issued by any other i n s t i t u te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports requ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion. Most exports to countries in the fo rm er French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the N a t ion al Ma rke t ing Office for Ag r icu l tu ral Products (O f f ice N a t i o n al de Comme rc ia l isa t ion des Produits Agricoles, or ONCPA ), and by the Na t ional Marketing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois or OCB). Proceeds f r om exports to fore ign countries must be collected and repa t r ia ted, generally w i th in 180 days of a r r iv al of the commod i t ies at the ir des t ina t ion. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month of the due da te. All export t ransac t ions re la t ing to countries o ther th an France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies must be domiciled with an au tho r ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amoun ts due f rom res iden ts of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun tr ies f r om fo re ign assets must be collected when due and su r rende red w i th in a mon th of the due date. Res ident and non res ident travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of bankno tes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in ). Capital All cap i tal movements between the Congo and Rho- desia are prohibited. Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, although subject to declaration; most investment operations and borrow- ing and lend ing between the Congo and these countries are subject to authorization. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, fore ign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and ou tward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such inves tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo4 require prior approval by the M in is ter of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The f u ll or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts in the Congo must be declared to the Min- ister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days. Direct invest- ments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) bor- row ing backed by a guaran tee f rom the Congolese Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i l ar to securities whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale in the Congo has a l ready been au thor ized. Bo r row ing by res iden ts f r om non res iden ts requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Finance. How- ever, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount ou t s tand ing does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, are exempt f rom th is requ i remen t. The con t rac t ing of loans that are f ree of au tho r i z a t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Ex ternal F i n a n c i al Re la t ions w i t h in 20 days of the opera t ion. 3 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough fo r e ign companies that are d i rec t ly i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in the Congo and those made b ranches or sub s id ia r ies abroad of companies in the Congo. 4 I n c l u d i ng those i n v o l v i ng the t r a n s f er be tween non res iden ts of p a r t i c i p a t i on in the cap i tal of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained f rom the Minister of Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the to tal amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and ( 3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose m a tu r i ty is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External F inanc ial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved fore ign investments. The Code provides for four cate- gories of preferential trea tmen t. Gold By v i r t ue of Decree No. 66/236 of Ju ly 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the fo rm of coin, art objects, or jewe l ry; however, they require the prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is ter of Finance to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any form, f rom or to any other country. Exempt from the l a t t er r equ i r em ent are ( 1) imports and exports by or on beha lf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles containing a minor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c l e s ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official expor ts of gold. Changes during 1978 No s ign i f i c ant changes took place. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at 0 8.57 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are <Z 8.54 and (I 8.60, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, with daily quotations based on the re la t ionsh ip of those currenc ies against the U.S. dollar expressed in Costa Rican colones at buy ing and selling rates of <l 8.57 and 0 8.60, respectively, per US$1. The Canad ian dollar is also off ic ia l ly quoted; da i ly quo ta t ions for transactions in banknotes and checks expressed in that currency are based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in ma rke ts abroad. The Central Bank stands ready, in principle, to buy U.S. dollars fo rw a rd at 90 days, at (2 8.39055 per US$1. Many private sector transac t ions in fo re ign exchange, inc lud ing settlements for current and cap i tal t ran s fer transac t ions, are effected through the San Jose stock exchange at rates close to the official market rate. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and se l l ing ra tes for the U.S. dollar in that ma rket were 0 8.73 and 0 8.79, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Costa Rica f o rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as f r om February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange con tro ls are operated by the Cen tral Bank. No l icenses are requ ired to buy or sell fore ign exchange th at is not sub ject to m a n d a t o ry sale to the b a n k i ng system. Prescription of Currency In practice, nea r ly all exchange t ran sac t ions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. do l la rs. Paymen ts to Poland may be made th rough special U.S. do l lar accounts estab- lished und er a paymen ts agreement w i th that country. Paymen ts to other m em b er coun t r i es of the Central Am e r i c an Common Ma rket ( C A CM )2 in respect of t r a de and t rade - re la ted inv i s ib les m u st be m ade in Costa R i c an colones th rough the C en t r al Am e r i c an C lea r ing House. P a ym e n ts to and f r om Co lomb ia in respect of c omm e r c i al ope ra t ion s, services, and c ap i t al may be made in U.S. do l la rs t h r o u gh a rec ip rocal c red it a r r a n g em e nt be tween the m emb er cen t ral b anks of the Cen t ral Ame r i- can C l e a r i ng House and the B ank of the Repub l ic of 1 G u a t em a l an q u e t z a l e s, H o n d u r an l emp i r a s, N i c a r a g u an cordobas, and S a l v a d o r an colones. For the N i c a r a g u an cordoba a se l l ing ra te on ly is quo ted. - El Sa lvado r, G u a t em a l a, H o n d u r a s, and N i c a r agu a. 120 Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under a new agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing and all import payments may be made freely, subject to submission of evidence of prior registration (see below) except for goods orig- in a t ing in CACM coun tr ies or Panama. However, certain imports f rom CACM countries require prior authoriza- tion, and imports made on a barter basis require a bar ter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Min- istry of Econorny, Indus try, and Commerce. To be e l ig ib le for fore ign exchange, orders for imports valued at over US$300 must be registered with the Central Bank upon con f i rma t ion by the foreign supplier, unless the goods or ig ina te in CACM countries or Panama. Impor ts f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. In addition to any applicable customs duty, the fol- lowing taxes are levied on impo r ts: ( 1) a s tamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common external ta r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exemp t; and (3) a selective consump t ion tax w i th a range of 10-100 per cent ad valorem on impor ts f rom outside the CACM and at lower rates on many CACM imports. There is also a small consu lar tax on certain imports. Furthermore, most impo r ts o r ig ina t ing outside the CACM are subject to an impo rt surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable impo rt du ty, and a tempo ra ry impo rt surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad va lorem is levied on many imports f rom coun t r ies other than the CACM countries and P an am a. Under the prov is ions of the Cen tral American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incen t ives, Costa Rica grants du ty exon- e ra t ions on impo r ts of raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods to approved indu s t r ial f irms. Payments for Invisibles The p r ior app roval of the Central Bank is required for all sales of o f f ic ial fo re ign exchange for current invisi- bles; for ce r ta in t ravel exchange th is approval is given by the Cen t ral Bank's rep re sen ta t ives in the commerc ial b a n k s, w h i le in a ll other cases the app roval must be sought f r om the Cen tral Bank's Depar tment of Inter- n a t i o n al Transac t ions. Any physical or j u r i d i c al person may purchase, sub- ject to pr ior app roval by the Cen tral Bank, exchange up to the equ iv a l ent of US$500 a rem i t tance for any pur- pose and at any t ime, but not more of ten than once ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution every three mon ths. Foreign exchange for p r iva te t ravel may be purchased at agent banks up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for tr ips of ten days (US$100 a day for shorter t r i p s ), upon presen ta t ion of passport and travel t icke ts; agent banks may sell add i t ional amoun ts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total add i t ional amount of US$3,000 a person a t r ip, subject to presentation of ev idence of the leng th of the stay abroad. Travel exchange in excess of US$3,000 a person a t r ip must be approved by the Depar tment of In te rna t ional Transac- tions. W i thho ld ing taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respec t ive ly, are levied on rem i t tances abroad of d iv i- dends and in teres t; interest on ce r ta in bo r row ing abroad (e.g., f r om government bank s) is exempt. Residents t rave l ing abroad by air mu st pay a t ravel tax of 5 per cent of the va lue of the t icke ts p lus (2 20 a t r i p; govern- ment o f f ic ia l s, d ip loma t s, m ino r s, and s tuden ts a re exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Cen t ral Bank supervises expor ts to ensu re that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- r end er mu st take place by sale to the Cen t ral Bank or an agent bank. Exporters of non t rad i t ional commodities are en t i t l ed to tax cred it cer t if ica tes (CATs) correspond- ing to 15 per cent of the f .o .b. v a l u e, wh ich are free ly nego t iab le. In add i t ion, exporters of non t rad i t ional commod i t ies e l ig ib le for CATs may also receive cer- t if ica tes for increases in exports (C IEX) for 10 per cent of the increase in the f.o.b. v a l ue of exports over the preced ing ca lendar year; the cer t if ica tes are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses f r om the Cen t ral Bank are necessary for the expo r ta t ion of me rchand ise. In add i t ion to the export license f r om the Cen tral B ank, other export licenses are requ i red as fo l lows: strategic ma te r ia ls, such as a rma- men ts, m u n i t i o n s, scrap i ron, and scrap of non fe r rous base metals ( f r om the M in i s t ry of Economy, Indu s t ry, and Comm e r c e ); sugar ( f r om the Ag r i cu l tu r al Indus- t r i al Board for S u g a r c a n e ); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, co t ton, mea t, and purebred and other ca t t le ( f r om the Na t ional Counc il of P r o d u c t i o n ); a i rp lanes ( f r om the Civil Av ia t ion B o a r d ); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f r om the Na t ional M u s e um ); tobacco ( f r om the Tobacco Defense B o a r d ); l um b e r, root of ipecacuanha, cer ta in livestock, and an im a ls and p lan ts of forest o r ig in ( f r om the M i n i s t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and L ive s tock ); and coffee ( f r om the Coffee O f f i c e ); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Cen- tral Bank grants an export license. Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered w i t h in 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export COSTA RICA proceeds, wh ich are ca lcu la ted by deduc t ing f rom their gross export proceeds ( 1) prof i ts obtained du r ing the year f rom the ir t ran sac t ions in Costa R ica; (2) the a l lowance for deprec ia t ion on the ir inves tment in Costa R ica that is acceptable to the U.S. In te rnal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in for- eign cu r rency; and (4) the cost of imports made du r ing the year th at were necessary for their no rmal business in Costa R ica. There are taxes on most exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial ra te w i t h in 15 days of accrual, w i th the exception of the fo l low ing, which may be retained and used as "free m a rk et exchange": d ip loma t ic and similar sa la r ies and expenses; tou r i st expend i tures; f am i ly rem i t- tances and other personal rem i t tances; settlements on i n s u r a n ce c la ims, provided that the p rem ium was paid th rough the f ree ma rke t; and commissions received by agents and represen ta t ives of fore ign firms. Capital A ll cap i tal t r an s f e rs between residents and nonresi- dents may be made f ree ly. Most such transactions are ca r r ied out in the f ree exchange ma rke t, since, as f rom December 19, 1978, the Central Bank has d iscon t inued the reg i s t ra t ion of cap i tal for all new t ransac t ions involv- ing capital inves tmen ts, credits, or loans, except those of the pub l ic sector ( the Cen t ral Gove rnmen t, the bank ing system, and other o f f ic ial in s t i tu t ion s ). Foreign cur- rency receipts f rom new pr iva te sector operations may be sold in the f ree exchange market and foreign exchange may be purchased in that market for the se rv ic ing of amo r t iza t ion and interest in connection with such operations. Credits gran ted by suppliers abroad for import opera- t ions and f a l l i ng due w i th in not more than 180 days may be registered w i th the Central Bank, as a result of which fore ign exchange f rom the official ma rket will be avail- able to se t t le the credit. Guaran tee endorsements and p aym ent guaran tees gran ted by banks of the national b a n k i ng system are hand led in the free ma rke t, and such exchange opera t ions are for account and risk of the p a r t i cu l ar borrower. Loans granted by international financial agencies in whose capital Costa Rica holds a share, may s t i ll be registered with the Central Bank, so that their debt servicing may continue to be effected w i th resources f rom the official market. Likewise, unde r tak ings which had access to official exchange for servicing purposes prior to December 19, 1978 will con t inue to be entitled to purchase foreign currency f rom the official ma rke t; where foreign loans were gran ted on an ins ta l lment basis, add i t ional amounts being disbursed will con t inue to en joy the benefit of registra- tion at the Central Bank un t il they are fu l ly paid. In Ju ly 1978 the Government established a National Council of Ex ternal Financing, which is in charge of 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA coo rd ina t ing and nego t ia t ing all new fo re ign loans on behalf of the Cen t ral Gove rnmen t, the centralized agen- cies, and enterprises of the public sector. Foreign and domestic capital t r an s f e r r ed f rom abroad may be depos- ited as t ime deposits w i th agent banks in the fo rm of specified fo re ign currenc ies3 or be invested in certifi- cates of deposit denom ina ted in colones; such fund s, when they ma ture, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. The sale of fo re ign exchange f rom the o f f ic ial ma rket for the purpose of t r a n s f e r r i ng na t ional capital abroad is res tr ic ted. Agent banks have au tho r i ty to sell exchange for cer ta in inves tment operations approved by the M in is try of Economy, Indu s t ry, and Commerce, as well as the Cen t ral Bank. All other t ran s fe rs of n a t ion al cap i tal abroad requ i re that the fo re ign exchange ou t lay be au thor ized by the Cen tral B ank. Such au tho r iza t ion is not gran ted for t r an s f e rs of cap i tal not required by ac tual l iab i l i t ies abroad and for ac tual l iab i l i t ies which in the op in ion of the Central Bank cons t i tu te an un ju s t i- f ied t r a n s f er of na t ional capital. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as p a rt of the m o n e t a ry reserves in accord- ance with regu la t ions established by its own Board. Private physical and ju r id ical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological t r e a su r e s ), provided there is no in f r a c t ion of in te rna t ional agreemen ts. They may also hold gold in any fo rm in Costa Rica. The Cen tral Bank does not supply gold to artistic or profes- sional users. Changes during 1978 February 7. Radiators and rad ia tor parts, except those needed for equipment used in the agr icu l tural and indus t r ial sectors, were added to the list of items subject to payment of tempo ra ry import surcharges. February 28. Exports of fresh, frozen, and refriger- ated tuna and tuna parts (not in cans) were removed f rom the list of commodities eligible for tax credit certificates (CATs). March 17. Rates of selective consumption taxes on television sets and automobiles were lowered. Decree No. 8151-H established that television sets assembled in Costa Rica and those en ter ing under the protection of free t rade treaties would be taxed at 30 or 40 per cent, favor ing television sets with cabinets of na t ional manu- fac ture. Imported television sets would be taxed at 60 per cent. Station wagons, sports cars, and sedans would be taxed as follows: automobiles fu l ly assembled overseas at 75 per cent (up to 1,600 cubic centimeters) or 100 per cent (over 1,600 c c ); locally assembled auto- mobiles at 30 per cent (up to 1,300 cc ), 50 per cent 3 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 122 (over 1,300 cc and up to 1,600 cc ), or 100 per cent (over 1,600 cc ). March 27. Executive Decree No. 8293-MEIC was issued wh ich specified that all vessels f ly ing the Costa R ican flag must sa t isfy the raw material needs of Costa R ican processing plants before expor t ing any fresh tuna. April 5. Ammon ium su l fa te was added to the list of items subject to payment of temporary import surcharges. May 30. Executive Decree No. 8654-P-H provided that a ll a r r ang em en ts o f, and nego t ia t ions fo r, foreign cred it by the Cen t ral Government and public and private sectors which w i ll requ ire government endorsement or gua ran tee should be channeled through the Ministry of F inance. June 2. The Second Amendment to the Articles of Ag reement of the In te rna t ional Monetary Fund was ra t i f ied (Law No. 6 2 2 3 ). June 20. Expor ts of f resh, re f r ige ra ted, and frozen fish h a v i ng scales, lobster, lobster tails, prawn, etc., were removed f rom the list of commodities eligible for tax credit cer t if ica tes (CATs). July 11. Executive Decree No. 8760-H established the N a t i o n al Council on Ex ternal F inanc ing as an advi- sory body to the M in i s t ry of F inance, responsible for deve lop ing and mon i to r ing the nation's external f i n a n c i ng policy. September 11. In accordance w i th ins t ruc t ions f r om the N ica raguan mone ta ry authorities, the Costa Rican b a n k i ng system suspended purchases of N icaraguan cu r rency and paymen ts on checks denominated in cordobas w i th the exception of checks issued on or before September 9 by the Central Bank of Nicaragua or the N ica raguan bank ing system and of checks drawn by the public and certified before that date. It was announced that any checks or other documents issued a f t er t h at date could be negotiated on ly if they were du ly au tho r ized by the Central Bank of Nicaragua. September 30. Executive Decree No. 9135-H raised the ad valorem duties on exports of coffee f rom the 1978/79 crop to 9.4 per cent. October 2. The amount of fo re ign exchange any per- son m ight purchase f r om the n a t i o n al b a n k i ng system for any purpose was raised f r om US$300 to US$500; such purchases could be made every three mon ths instead of every six months. Restrictions on the distribution of exchange purchases between bills, travelers checks, or bank d ra f ts were eliminated. December 19. The Central Bank d i scon t inued the reg is t ra t ion of cap i tal for new t ran sac t ions involving cap i tal inves tmen t, credits, or loans, except those of the pub l ic sector. All cap i tal t ran s fe rs between residents and non res iden ts could henceforth be made freely. Under the new regu la t ion, credits granted by suppliers abroad for commod i ty import operations, fa l l ing due w i th in not more than 180 days, must be registered with the Cen tral Bank for its au thor iza t ion before the official exchange requ ired for servicing could be obtained. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. Cyprus follows a flexible exchange rate policy. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily w i th the aim of m a in t a in ing its effec t ive re la t ionsh ip w i th the curren- cies of the ma in t rad ing par tners. On December 29, 1978 the off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l la r, the in terven t ion currency, were <£C 0.35392 and <£C 0.35354, respectively, per US$1. The Cen t ral Bank of Cyprus also quotes da i ly buy ing and se l l ing rates for the deutsche ma rk, the Greek d rachma, and the pound s ter l ing. It also quotes ind ica t ive rates for other fo re ign currencies.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of fo re ign exchange. The Cen tral Bank offers authorized dealers fac i l i t ies for fo rwa rd purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds s t e r l ing for periods of up to six mon th s, in respect of t rade t ran sac t ions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are adm in i s te red by the Cen t ral Bank, and t rade con tro ls by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. A u t h o r i ty to approve ce r ta in app l ica t ions for the a l loca t ion of fo r e ign exchange, w i t h in the scope of in s t ru c t ions issued by the Cen t ral Bank, has been delegated to authorized dealers. Au thor i ty to introduce, adap t, and supe rv ise con tro ls on expor ts of potatoes has been de lega ted to the Cyp rus Po ta to M a r k e t i ng Board, wh i le exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus G ra in Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements with c lear ing coun t r ie s2 must be made th rough the appropr ia te c lea r ing a c count d enom in a t ed either in pounds s te r l ing or in U.S. do l la rs. Paymen ts to coun tr ies o ther th an the c lea r ing coun t r i es (except Rhode s ia) may be made by c red i t ing Cyp rus pounds to an Ex te rnal Accoun t, or in any f o r e i gn cu r r en cy '' other th an Rhode s ian c u r r e n c y; the proceeds of exports to such coun t r ies may be rece ived in Cyp rus pounds f rom an Ex te rnal Account or in any fo r e ign cu r rency except Rhodes ian cu r rency. Se t t lemen ts w i th Rhodes ia are subject to special regu la t ions; p aym en ts for exports to Rhodes ia mu st be received in any fo re ign cu r rency other than Rhodes ian cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts Res iden ts of coun t r ies ou ts ide Cyp rus other than Rhodes ia m ay m a i n t a in w i th au tho r ized b a n ks non res i- 1 A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r a n cs ( c omm e r c i a l ), C a n a d i an do l la rs, D a n i sh k r o n e r, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J a p a n e se y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, P o r t u g u e se e scudo s, S p a n i sh pese tas, Swedish k r o n e r, and Swiss f r a n c s. - People's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, H u n g a r y, and R om a n i a. '•' Fo re ign c u r r e n c i es a re a ll c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an the C y p r us p o u n d. dent accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Cyprus, with transfers f rom other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for purchases of any fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian cu r rency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel purposes to non- resident ind iv idua ls, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the UN forces in Cyprus (up to the equ iva lent of <£C 50 a t r i p ). Rhodes ian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia and are sub ject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined in the name of a non re s ident for certain f u n ds of a capital na ture which may not be t rans fe r red outside Cyprus under the exist- ing exchange control regu la t ions. Blocked f u n ds may e i ther be held as deposits or be invested in government secur i t ies or gove rnmen t -gua ran teed securities. Income ea rned on blocked f u n ds so invested may be remitted to the non re s ident benef ic iary or be credited to an External Account w i thout prior re fe rence to the Central Bank. Funds can be released f rom Blocked Accounts in the f o l l ow i ng c ircums tances: on app l ica t ion by the author- ized b a nk concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked f u n ds for ( 1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable l iv ing expenses of the account holder wh i le on a v is it to Cyprus; and ( 3) dona t ions to chari- tab le i n s t i t u t i o ns in Cyp rus. In add i t ion to any releases und er ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amoun ts up to a level deter- m in ed f rom t ime to t ime may become eligible for release. The Central Bank is prepared to permit the re lease of blocked f u n ds to each non re s ident holder up to <£C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of v i r tua l ly all commodities may be made f r e e ly f rom any o ther coun t ry except A lban ia, Bu lg a r i a, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslo- vak ia, the Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Korea, Po land, Roman ia, Tibet, and Viet Nam, for wh ich impo rt licenses are requ i red. For protective reasons, ce r ta in goods (such as some ag r i cu l tu r al and t ex t i le p roduc ts, foo twea r, me tal m anu f a c tu r e s, and 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS industrial machinery) may not be imported freely; for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania are licensed in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and /or payments agree- ments. With respect to Albania, North Korea, Mon- golia, Tibet, and Viet Nam, no formal trading arrange- ments exist but certain barter transactions take place f rom time to time. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited g if ts (which may not be sold) up to <£C 10 in value, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made without prior approval from the Exchange Control Sec- tion of the Central Bank af ter arrival of the goods or after receipt of a fu ll set of shipping documents. Advance payments require prior approval from the Exchange Control Section, except for imports whose value does not exceed <£C 100. Payments for imports f ree f rom licensing requ i remen ts must be made within 200 days f rom the date of shipment. Payments for imports requiring a license must be made within the time limits specified on the license, except with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tu f f, Pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved fore ign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance prem iums due to fore ign insurance companies are remittable af ter deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Family maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documen ta ry evidence. For certain categories of paymen ts, limits are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, allowances normally are granted only for s tudy at colleges, un ive rs i t ies, and other educational ins t i tu t ions recommended by the M in is try of Educa t ion. The lower l im it is £C 1,000 a year, and the upper l im it is <£C 2,400 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of l iv ing in the coun t ry concerned —e.g., for s tudy in countries in the Eastern Med i terranean and the M idd le East (de f ined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, e tc . ), <£C 1,000; in the Un i ted States and Canada, <£C 2,400; in all other countries, <£C 2,000. Higher amoun ts may be granted on presentation of documen ta ry evidence. For tourist trave l, the limit is £C 300 a person annua l ly; for busi- ness travel <£C 20 to <£C 60 a day is gran ted in addition 124 to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus currency notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of «£C 50, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out «£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley, to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the pur- pose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 75 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank without delay. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward port- folio investment is not norma l ly permitted, and only specified types of outward direct investment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be em- ployed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise f rom the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad up to <£C 1,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resu l t ing f rom estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate also is limited to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in fore ign securities owned by residents requ i re pr ior permission f rom the authorities. In princi- ple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS reg is tra t ion. Foreign l i fe in su rance policies not covered by the In su rance Law must be deposited w i th an au tho r ized dea le r. Gold Residents may hold and a cqu i re gold coins in Cyprus for num i sm a t ic purposes. With th is excep t ion, res iden ts other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s, au tho r ized dealers in go ld, and indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any fo rm o ther th an jewe l ry, at home or ab road. Au tho r ized dea le rs in gold are pe rm i t ted to impo rt gold only for the purpose of d ispos ing of it to indu s t r i al users. The export of gold requ i res the per- mission of the exchange control au tho r i t ie s. Changes during 1978 January 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement with the G e rm an Democra t ic Repub l ic was te rm ina ted and was rep laced by a t rade agreemen t. January 1. The a n n u al l im it on exchange allowance for t o u r i st t r av el was raised to <£C 300 a person. September 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement with Czechos lovak ia was te rm ina ted and was replaced by a t r ade ag reemen t. October 1. The b i la teral paymen ts agreement with Bu lg a r ia was t e rm in a t ed and was replaced by a t rade agreemen t. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Denmark is the Dan ish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, Luxembourg, and the Ne the r lands in the European common marg ins a r rangement (the snake), which is a mu l t icurrency in terven t ion system.1 In accordance with this agreement, spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipan ts are m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in ma rg ins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates applied in the arrangemen t. The arrangement implies that the N a t ion al Bank of Denmark (the cen tral bank) s tands ready to buy or sell the currenc ies of the other pa r t ic ipa t ing states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 29, 1978 these rates were: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 Ne ther lands gu i lde rs Danish Kroner Upper l im it Lower limit 18.3665 288.66 266.365 17.5585 275.96 254.645 The par t ic ipan ts in the snake are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper f u n c t i o n i ng of the arrangement, they in tervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the pr inc ipal inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Selling rates for 17 foreign currencies are quoted da i ly on the basis of market rates.2 On December 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DKr 5.086 and DKr 5.094, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transac t ions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place w i th in two bank ing days; transactions which ma tu re in three bank ing days or more are defined as fo rwa rd transac- tions. Spot transactions in all currencies, inc lud ing Danish kroner, and fo rwa rd transactions invo lv ing pu r- chases of foreign currencies against sales of fore ign currencies, may be concluded free ly w i th domestic and foreign banks. Forward transactions which involve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; fur thermore, special rules apply for the 1 W i th effect f rom March 13, 1979 Denma rk participates in the exchange ra te mechanism of the European Monetary System. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Finnish m a rkk a a, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. (W i th effect f rom March 13, 1979 rates for the Irish pound are also quo ted .) 126 fo rwa rd sale of fore ign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward dealings against Danish kroner w i th nonresident customers. For- wa rd prem iums and discounts are generally le ft to the in te rp lay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents wh ich involve Danish kroner must cover con- t rac tual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years f rom the date of the fo rwa rd contract. Forward transactions with resident customers, which do not involve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements with respect to con t rac tual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to ind iv idual transactions and transfers of DKr 5,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 5,000 may, in any case, be made w i thout delivery of forms. Per- mission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the M in is try of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the M in is t ry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. For pay- ments to and from Rhodesia, however, special rules are applied in accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts and South Rhodesian Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EEC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresident does not exceed DKr 200,000; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any amount in excess of DKr 200,000 must be trans- ferred abroad within three days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for non- residents, provided they are only credited with the liqui- dation proceeds or capital earnings from certain invest- ments in Denmark and some other fund s. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amoun ts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the t ime of depar ture. Certain pay- ments to residents may be made freely f rom these accounts and the balances are in any case made con- vertible one year a f t er departure. South Rhodesian Accounts are kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EEC system of expo r t / impo rt licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all coun tr ies expor t ing low-priced textiles. The only commod i t ies that requ i re a license when o r ig ina t ing in or purchased f rom member coun t r i es of the EEC are a few ag r i cu l tu r al products and unw rought and s em im a n u f a c t u r ed gold. A few items requ ire a license when o r ig ina t ing in Japan, the R epub l ic of Korea, or any other non-s ta te- trad ing, non-EEC coun try. A larger numb er of items require a license when or ig ina t ing in or purchased f rom A lban ia, Bul- garia, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Repub l ic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democra t ic Repub- lic, Hung a ry, No r th Korea, Mongo l ia, Po land, Rom an i a, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. No licenses are g ran ted for the im p o r t a t i on of goods o r i g i n a t i ng in or pu rcha sed f rom Rhodes ia. The t r an s f er of f u n ds to, or for the bene f it of, Rhode- sia is p roh ib i ted. With this excep t ion, p aym en ts for impo r ts and the related sh ipp ing expenses may be made f ree ly w i t h in f ive years (seven yea rs for ships and e ight years for heavy m a ch in e ry and m a jor in s ta l la t ions pur- chased for an amount of DKr 1 m i l l ion or more) f rom the end of the mon th in which the goods were cleared th rough customs, prov ided t h at the terms of p aym ent con fo rm to normal commerc ial p rac t ice in the t rade concerned. R ep aym en ts of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day s t ipu la ted as the latest in the contract (or before the latest cus tomary da te in the trade). However, commercial credits can be repa id at any t ime if a d iscount is ob ta ined as a resu l t, p rov ided the p aym ent is made to the supp l ier and con fo rms to normal commerc ial p rac t ice in the t rade concerned. P repaymen ts l ink ed to trade in goods and services th at a re in con fo rm i ty w i th n o rm al commerc ial p rac t ice may be granted to nonres iden ts up to one year pr ior to the expected da te of impo rt or the expected date of per- fo rmance of the service; the pe rm i t ted period is up to DENMARK five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the Na t ional Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most invisibles may be made freely; only a few cases requ ire approval from the Na t ional Bank. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the t rans fer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel, except payments for the account of residents of Rhodesia, is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equ iva lent of DKr 5,000. Payments of any k ind to Rhodesia, except paymen ts for pensions, for s tr ic t ly h um a n i t a r i a n, medical, or edu- cational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 5,000 in Danish bankno tes and coin, and any amount in fore ign bankno tes or other means of paymen t. Non- residents may, in addition, export any amount of Danish bankno tes and coin derived f rom sales of foreign cur- rency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denma rk. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted w i th the exception of products intended for strictly med ical purposes, edu- ca t ional m a t e r i a l, publications, and news ma te r ia l. Gold is the only commodity that requ ires a license when exported to member countries of the EEC. W i th respect to other des t ina t ions, except for ce r ta in i tems sub ject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of ce r ta in metals and mone tary gold. Export proceeds must be t ran s fe r red to Denmark w i thout undue delay unless the Na t ional Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to am o u n ts wh i ch are to be used w i t h in 30 days to settle or to offset cer ta in commercial and cap i tal paymen ts; other- wise, fo re ign exchange receipts must e i ther be offered for sale to the N a t ion al Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout u n d ue delay, or kept in an account w i th an authorized exchange dealer for a maxi- mum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange der ived f rom invisibles must be t r a n s f e r r ed to Denma rk, un less the Na t ional Bank per- mits otherwise, and o f fe red for sale to the Bank or to an au thor ized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, w i th exceptions s im i lar to those th at apply to export 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish banknotes and coin, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of mem- ber countries of the EEC is based on EEC directives on capital movements, subject to certain transitional arrangements, and licensing practice in respect of resi- dents of the rest of the world (except Rhodesia) as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tu r i ty, or to repur- chase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad). Residents may lend amoun ts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subs id iary companies (direct invest- men ts of loan capital) or to a member of the resident's fam i ly. Contributions from a parent enterprise to a branch may not be made as loans or g ran ts but are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Residents may buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in fo re ign commercial or indus t r ial enter- prises, provided that these are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned, or that the res ident fu rn i sh es proof that he has sold fore ign securities to a nonresident for a correspond ing amount w i th in the last 12 months. No special perm iss ion is requ ired for residents to make t ran s fe rs abroad, w i th in certain l im i ts, in connection w i th most direct inves tmen ts or w i th p r iva te acqu is i t ions of real estate abroad. The l im i ts are DKr 200,000 a year for each fore ign enterprise for d irect inves tmen ts of equ i ty cap i ta l ,3 and DKr 60,000 a person for p r iva te acqu is i t ion of real estate for noncommercial purposes (DKr 150,000 for hea l th reasons). Direct inves tmen ts abroad by residents are no rm a l ly approved in accordance w i th Denmark's ob l iga t ions as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The p r iva te acqu is i t ion of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 no rma l ly is approved in accord- ance w i th Denmark's ob l iga t ions as a member of the EEC. Au thor ized exchange dealers do not need special perm iss ion to g r ant loans to non res iden ts for the f inanc- ing of paymen ts to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided no rma l ly that the loan is g ran ted d i rec t ly to the fo re ign purchaser; in those cases where the National Bank's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital na ture by residents. Portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Residents may subscribe to or purchase listed foreign bonds with an original maturity above two years, listed on a stock exchange and issued by specified international organizations of which Den- mark is a member. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash, and sale or redemption does not entitle the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other foreign securities. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. The remaining liquid assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equ i ty capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 1 million in each calendar year. However, investments in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital investments abroad or the financing of nonresidents, continue to be subject to license. In addition, a license is required if the investment is unde r taken by a fore ign firm in which a resident directly or indirectly owns an interest repre- senting a direct investment. Direct investments must be no t if ied to the Na t ional Bank if they may be made w i thout a special license. Inwa rd direct investments w i th loan capital also are exempt f rom special licenses within certain limits. Contributions f rom a parent enter- prise to a branch may not be made as a loan or a grant but are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Other direct inves tmen ts by nonresidents require per- mission f rom the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance w i th Denmark's obliga- t ions as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark norma l ly requires a special license f rom the M in is t ry of Justice; permission is usua l ly granted readily where real estate is to be used for indus t r ial or s im i lar enterprises. The sale to nonres iden ts of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license.4 Bonds denom ina ted only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonres iden ts may f ree ly purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not repre- sent a direct inves tmen t; this liberalization does not app ly to certificates of investment companies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of :{ A license is r e q u i r e d, howeve r, for inv e s tm en ts in firms wh ich exc lu- s ive ly or la rge ly are engaged in cap i tal inv e s tm en ts or financing. 4 W i th effect f r om Feb rua ry 6, 1979 a ban was imposed on purchases of Danish Gove rnment bonds. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution th e ir assets are secu r i t ies o th er th an stock exchange securities. Re s iden ts may take up loans for up to f ive years (seven yea rs for sh ips and e ight yea rs for heavy m a c h i n e ry and m a j or i n s t a l l a t i o ns v a l u ed at DKr 1 m i l l i on or mo re) f r om n o n r e s i d e n ts to f inance im p o r ts of c omm o d i t i es and services and the g r a n t i ng of c red i ts for expo r ts of commod i t ies and services, p r o v i d ed the c r e d it is in c o n f o rm i ty w i th n o rm al comm e r c i al p rac t ice. En te r- prises in most i n d u s t r i es may t ake up lo ans of up to DKr 20 m i l l i on a bo r rower in a c a l e n d ar yea r, p rov id ed that the m a t u r i ty is at least f ive yea rs and t h at the e n t i re proceeds a re used o n ly to f inance f ixed i n v e s tm e nt e i th er in the bo r rowe r 's own bus iness in D e nm a rk or in a bu s ine ss u n d e r t a k i ng in D e nm a rk wh i ch is c o n t r o l l ed by the bo r rowe r. Most bus iness inv e s tm en ts may f o rm the bas is of such loans, i.e., i n v e s tm e n ts in bu s ine ss or i n d u s t r i al prem ises, and the a c q u i s i t i on of p l a n t, m a c h i n- ery, and most t r an spo rt e q u i pm e n t ,5 and p rov ided that the assets a re de l ive red w i t h in 6 mon ths p r ior to the da te the loan is r e p a t r i a t e d, or con t rac ted to be d e l iv e r ed w i t h in 12 mon ths f o l l ow i ng t h at d a t e. F i n a l l y, a r e s i d e nt may take up loans of up to DKr 200,000 a bo r rower in a ca lendar year f r om membe rs of h is own f am i l y. Fore ign bo r row ing by m u n i c i p a l i t i es and p u b l ic u t i l i ty compan ies is sub ject to con t rol by the a p p r o p r i a te d ep a r tm ent of the Gov e rnm en t. T ran s fe rs of proceeds f rom the sale or l i q u i d a t i on of a ll types of inves tmen ts and t r a n s f e rs of a ll o ther l i q u id f u n ds in Denma rk owned by n o n r e s i d e n ts o ther t h an new em i g r a n ts a re pe rm i t ted f r e e l y, i r re spec t ive of when and how the o r ig inal i n v e s tm e nt was a c q u i r e d. In te rest and r ep aym ent of p r i n c i p al on au tho r i z ed loan s, c red i ts, and deposits received f r om pe rsons and f i rms who a re n o n r e s i d e n ts at the t ime of rece ipt may be p a id f r e e l y, w i th the prov iso t h at loans and c r ed i ts ob ta ined f r om a n o n r e s i d e nt g e n e r a l ly m u st not be am o r t i z ed or repa id in f u ll mo re t h an 30 days b e f o re the am o r t i z a t i on pay- m ent or repayment is due. I n h e r i t a n c es and g i f ts to r e l a t i v es may n o rm a l ly be t r a n s f e r r ed to a ny c o u n t ry w i t h o ut l i m i t a t i o n. I n d i v i d u al p aym en ts above DKr 5,000 as g i f ts to pe rsons o ther t h an r e l a t iv es a re sub j e ct to app rov al f r om the N a t i o n al B ank. Im p o r ts and expo r ts of secu r i t ies are sub ject to regu- l a t i o n, the de ta i ls of w h i ch a re e s tab l i shed by the N a t ion al B ank. Bona f ide impo r ts of Dan ish secu r i t ies payable on ly in Dan ish k ron er a re p e rm i t t ed. Expor ts of D an i sh and fo r e ign secu r i t ies owned by n o n r e s i d e n ts are no rm a l ly also pe rm i t ted. Dan ish secu r i t ies he ld in Denma rk and be long ing to non res iden ts may, w i th the p r inc ipal exception of bonds denom ina ted who l ly or pa r t ly in fo re ign currenc ies, be sold f r e e ly to re s iden t s. Foreign securities held in Denma rk and b e long ing to non res iden ts may, w i th ce r ta in excep t ions, be sold to res iden ts on ly w i th the pe rm i s s ion of the N a t i o n al Bank. 5 I n v e s tm e nt in sh ip s, ex c e ed ing 100 gross r eg i s t e r ed ton s, and a i r c r a ft m ay be e f fec ted on ly w i th special app rov al f r om the N a t i o n al B a n k. DENMARK Foreign securities he ld in D enm a rk may be nego t ia ted f r e e ly be tween re s iden t s, p rov ided th at the exchange con t rol r egu l a t ions a re not c i r c um v e n t e d. A u t h o r i z ed fo re ign exchange dea lers' comme rc ial net ba lances in accoun ts w i th fo r e ign coun t r ies may be n e g a t i ve to the ex t ent of an am o u nt equ al to the loans w h i ch the au tho r i z ed dea ler has g ran ted to res iden ts in fo r e ign cu r r en cy in c o n f o rm i ty w i th the exchange con- t rol r e g u l a t i o n s, and for the pu rpo se of f inanc ing Den- ma rk 's f o r e i gn t rade, w i t h in a l im it of DKr 3 m i l l ion, but for b a n ks and sav ings b a n ks the l im it is up to 5 per cent of net wo r th. A pos i t ive net comme rc ial f o r e i gn position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 m i l l i on o r, for b a n ks and savings b a n k s, 15 per cent of the cap i tal and reserves, wh ichever is h ighe r. Gold R e s i d e n ts may f r e e ly b u y, ho ld, and sell gold coin in D e nm a r k; they may also im p o rt gold co in. O therw ise, r e s id en ts o th er th an the m o n e t a ry a u t h o r i t i es and au tho r- ized i n d u s t r i al users are not a l lowed to acqu ire gold ab road. Impo r ts and e x p o r ts of gold n o rm a l ly requ i re l icenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce; such l i c en s es a re not n o rm a l ly g ran ted except for impo r ts and expor ts by or on b eh a lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and i n d u s t r i al users. Impo r ts of gold in bars or co in, un less made by or on beha lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i e s, are s u b j e ct to va lue -added tax at a rate of 20.25 per cent but not to cus toms du ty. Domestic t r a n s a c t i o ns also are t a x ed at a ra te of 20.25 per cen t. Changes during 1978 January 7. Res iden ts were pe rm i t ted to subscribe to or pu rchase listed fo r e ign bonds w i th an or ig inal ma tu- r i ty above two years, listed on a stock exchange, and issued by specified in t e rn a t ion al organ iza t ions of which D enm a rk is a membe r. The purchases were to be made th rough an au tho r ized exchange dealer aga inst cash, and sale or redemp t ion wou ld not en t i t le the seller to re in- vest the proceeds in other securities. March 22. The a r rangemen ts for es tab l ish ing the commercial banks' net "commercial" foreign position were changed. Under the new regu la t ion, authorized fo r e ign exchange dealers' commerc ial net balances in accoun ts w i th fo re ign coun t r ies may be negative to the ex tent of an amount equal to the loans which the authorized dealer has granted to residents in fore ign currency in con fo rm i ty with the exchange control regu- lations, for the purpose of financing Denma rk 's foreign t rade, w i th in a l im it of DKr 3 m i l l ion, but for banks and savings banks the l im it is up to 5 per cent of net worth. August 1. The amount of DKr 3,000 for ind iv idual t ran sac t ions and t ran s fe rs pe rm i t ted w i thout fo rm a l i ty was raised to DKr 5,000. Regu la t ions covering direct 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK investments were amended and liberalized. For ou tward direct inves tment of equ i ty capital the l im it was raised f rom DKr 100,000 to DKr 200,000 a year for each fore ign enterprise. A license wou ld be requ i red, how- ever, for inves tment in firms which were engaged, exclu- sively or largely, in capital investments or financing. It was provided that all direct inves tmen ts abroad must be reported to the National Bank. Inward direct invest- men ts in the fo rm of equity capital in firms that were not engaged in inves tment and financial activities m ight be made w i thout any special license if the inves tment did not increase total direct fo re ign inve s tment in the en terpr ise concerned by more than DKr 1 m i l l ion (for- merly DKr 100,000) in each calendar year and was not unde r taken by a fo re ign firm in which a resident owned an interest which, directly or indirectly, represented a direct investment. Free inward direct investments must be reported to the National Bank. October 1. The value-added tax was raised from 18 per cent to 20.25 per cent. November 18. It was announced that the export promotion fund would be increased f rom DKr 80 million to DKr 120 million. December 5. Denmark agreed to the establishment of the European Monetary System. December 11. Following Norway's decision to with- draw f rom the European common margins arrangement, effective December 12, it was announced that Denmark would no longer ma in ta in marg ins vis-a-vis the Norwe- gian krone f rom that date. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI1 (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respectively, per US$1. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for certain other currenc ies2 are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in inter- na t ional marke ts. The posted rates are subject to com- mission charges. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. Since independence ( June 27, 1977), the D j ibou ti f r anc has been issued by the D j ibou ti Treasury, which operates in th is respect as a currency board, issu- ing and redeem ing the cu r rency aga in st receipts and paymen ts of U.S. do l lars. 1 D j ibou ti became a member of the I n t e r n a t i o n al Mone ta ry Fund on December 29, 1978. 2 Deu tsche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, pounds s t e r l ing, and Swiss f r an c s. Imports and Import Payments Djibouti is a free trade zone. All goods may be imported w i thout any taxes or customs duties and there are no restrictions on payments. Exports and Export Proceeds No restrictions are placed on exports or export pro- ceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for or pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No res tr ic t ions are imposed on inwa rd or outward cap i tal t ran s fe r s. Changes during 1978 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA1 (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dollar,2 which is issued by the East Caribbean Cur- rency Au thor i ty. The French franc, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar are also legal tender in Dominica. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6848 and EC$2.7169, respec- tively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 2.5 per cent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for transactions involving less than EC$25 in foreign currency. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR i c oM )3 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Carib- bean do l lars) or in the currency of the CARICOM coun try concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency4 or through an Ex te rnal Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents w i thout reference to the Ministry of Finance. They are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of foreign curren- cies, w i th t r an s f e rs f rom other Ex ternal Accounts, and w i th paymen ts by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the M in is t ry of Finance. They may be debited for paymen ts to res iden ts and for the cost of fore ign exchange requ ired for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Most goods may be f ree ly impor ted under open general license. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported f rom CAR ICOM countries. Paymen ts for au thor ized impo r ts are pe rm i t ted upon app l ica t ion and submission of documen ta ry evidence. 1 Dom in i ca became a m emb er of the I n t e r n a t i o n al M o n e t a ry Fund on December 12, 1978. - The East C a r ibb e an do l lar is also the c u r r e n cy of A n t i g u a, G r e n a d a, M o n t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. L u c i a, and S t. V i n c e n t. : {The CA R I COM c o u n t r i es a re A n t i g u a, Ba rbado s, Be l ize, Dom in ica, G r e n a d a, G u y a n a, J am a i c a, M o n t s e r r a t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. L u c i a, S t. V i n c e n t, and T r i n i d ad and Tobago. 4 Fo re ign c u r r e n c i es comp r i se a ll c u r r e n c i es o th er t h an Ca r ibbean do l la r. the East 132 Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Under the Exchange Control Ordinance of 1973, payments for travel, medical treatment, education, sub- scription and membership fees, gifts, and the transfer of p ro f i ts abroad are subject to quantitative limitations. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, all transactions with Rhodesia also require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Dominica may pur- chase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 a trip for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Area. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. For business travel, additional allow- ances of foreign exchange may be made available at a rate not exceeding EC$200 a day up to a max imum of EC$5,000 a trip. Residents traveling abroad for medical trea tment are eligible for an allowance of EC$200 a day for a m ax imum of two months. Education allowances up to a max imum of EC$5,000 an academic year are permitted to cover the cost of enrollment, tuition, accommodation, and books. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$500 a donor a year; however, this limit may be exceeded w i th permission from the Ministry of Finance. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The collection of export proceeds is manda tory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the fore ign currency proceeds f rom t ransac t ions in invisibles is manda to ry. Travelers to Dom in ica may br ing in free ly notes and coin denomi- nated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign cu r rency. Capital All ou twa rd capital t rans fe rs require exchange con- trol approva l. The purchase by residents of fore ign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for p r iva te purposes is not no rma l ly permitted. Per- sonal cap i tal transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresi- den ts r equ i re approval which no rma l ly is gran ted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Em igran ts leaving Dom in ica to take up residence outside the East Carib- bean Currency Area may t ran s fer up to EC$5,000 f rom ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the ir assets subject to income tax clearance. The Ministry of F inance w i ll consider app l ica t ions for rem i t tance of amoun ts in excess of EC$5,000. Gold Res iden ts are pe rm i t ted to acqu i re and hold gold coin for n um i sm a t ic purposes on ly. Impo r ts of gold, und er license by the M in i s t ry of F inance, are pe rm i t ted for indu s t r i al purposes only. „, . . ,,>-„ Changes during 1978 ]une 7. Import of a number of clothing items, in c lud ing unde rga rmen ts, suits, waterproof outergar- ments, and shirts, was made subject to license. DOMINICA 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Kate System The currency of the Dominican R epub l ic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transac t ions in U.S. dollars between the Cen tral Bank of the Dom in ican Repub l ic and other b a n ks t a ke p lace at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 per cent. Exchange transac t ions by commerc ial banks w i th the pub l ic also take place at the ra te of RD$1 = US$1, sub ject to b a n k i ng commissions of 0.25 per cent buy ing and 0.5 per cent selling; m inor exchange t ransac t ions with tour is ts and other travelers f rom abroad are f ree of any b a n k i ng commissions or other service charges. Buy ing and selling rates for ce r ta in o ther cu r renc ies are also quo ted, based on the buy ing and se l l ing ra tes for the U.S. do l lar in ma rke ts abroad. All paymen ts ab road at the off ic ial exchange rate must be made th rough banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and b anks are requ i red to t r an s f er to the Cen t ral B ank a ll exchange purchased. Paymen ts for wh ich fo re ign exchange is not sold at the official exchange ra te are made th rough a tolerated free ma rke t, in wh ich the exchange rate fluctuates f r e e ly; th is ma rket is supplied by fore ign exchange receipts that are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and se l l ing rates in th is pa ra l lel ma rket were RD$1 .1967 and RD$1 .2133, respectively, per US$1. D i f fe rent effec- t ive exchange rates also arise f rom the r equ i r em ent of a f u l ly prepaid letter of credit for cer ta in impo r ts and the levy ing of a tax on prof i ts rem i t ted to nonres iden ts. On Augu st 1, 1953 the Dom in ican Repub l ic no t i f i ed the Fund that it fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t. Administration of Control Exchange and t rade control policy is d e t e rm in ed by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is adm in is tered by the Cen tral B ank. The Mone ta ry Board establishes import quotas, wh ich are adm in i s t e r ed and controlled by the Foreign Exchange D ep a r tm ent of the Central Bank. Certain releases of fo re ign exchange requ ire the express au thor iza t ion of the Pres ident of the Republic. Export controls are adm in i s te red by the Dom in ican Center for Export Promo t ion (CEDO PEX ). Prescription of Currency Imports f rom the United States that are f inanced by the U.S. Agency for In terna t ional Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settle- ments with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal 134 cred it agreemen ts w i th in the f ramewo rk of the Latin Ame r ican Free Trade Association (LAFTA) .1 Import paymen ts in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made th rough a letter of credit. Otherwise, no obliga- tions are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the currency to be used for paymen ts to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be classified broad ly into the following categories: ( 1) imports for which the bank ing system sells fore ign exchange in unrestricted amounts at the o f f ic ial exchange rate; (2) impor ts for which the bank- ing system sells fore ign exchange only up to annual quo tas; and (3) all other imports for which fore ign exchange is purchased in the to lera ted free market. All paymen ts for imports at the official exchange rate requ ire the approval of the Central Bank. Licensing controls are ma in ta ined over a few commodities for reasons of hea l th or security. Insurance on imports must be contracted with companies authorized to oper- a te in the Dom in ican Republic. Commodities subject to annual quo tas may be imported and settled w i th off ic ial exchange only against a fu l ly prepa id le t ter of credit. The same requirement applies to some other goods that are not subject to quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions, in c lud ing specified canned fish, olives and capers, alcoholic beverages, and certain types of ply- wood and doors. Some other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks t ransm it to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. A f ter the Central Bank approves an app l ica t ion, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial banks for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is fo rwa rded to the Central Bank a f t er these have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of foreign exchange to commercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank pays the exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct paymen t, a bank d ra f t, or a transfer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. At the end of 1978 such arrears represented about four weeks of applications. 1 These agreemen ts p rov ide sw ing l im i ts of v a r y i ng amoun ts but se t t lemen ts must be made in f u ll at the end of every four months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports are classified according to the Brussels tar iff nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties are levied on imports according to three general and nume rous specific laws. Ad valorem import du t ies range f rom 20 per cent to 200 per cent, but the max imum import du ty is considerably higher (around 700 per cen t) if specific duties are taken in to account. An in ternal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem and a 4 per cent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges also are applied to all imports except those subject to the m in imum duty of 20 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles requ i re the prior approval of the Central Bank which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transaction. However, fore ign exchange at the off ic ial rate is sold on ly for a l im i ted number of payments for current invisibles. For some of these invisibles, official foreign exchanges is sold up to specified limits. Thus, nonresident foreign nationals working in the Dom in ican Repub l ic in indu s t r ies and firms that contribute to the coun try's economic develop- ment may remit abroad at the off ic ial exchange ra te up to 40 per cent of the ir salaries. For s tuden ts pu r su ing approved courses, exchange requests for mon th ly ma in- tenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$250 for Spain, up to US$300 for other European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an add i t ional a l loca t ion of US$50 a mon th, irrespective of coun try, is ava i lab le for post- g radua te students. Exchange is also sold for rem i t tances to au thor ized s tuden ts to meet expenses for tu i t ion, books, and other fees. App l ica t ions for exchange for c o n t r a c t u al paymen t s, such as interest and amo r t iza t ion p aym en ts on loans registered w i th the Cen t ral B ank, are app roved in con fo rm i ty w i th the te rms of the con t r a c t. Transfers of p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds a re p e rm i t t ed only for fo re ign inves tmen ts that have been reg is tered in the Cen tral Bank and may not exceed 18 per cent a y e ar of the net va lue of the or ig inal and any a d d i t i o n al i n v e s tm e n t, in c lud ing reinvested p ro f i ts. D iv id ends r em i t t ed or cred i ted to non res iden ts are sub ject to a tax of 18 per cent and a surtax of 3 per cent of the amount of the tax. P aym en ts for inv is ib les for wh ich fo r e ign exchange is not sold at the o f f ic ial ra te, or in excess of the l im i ts specified, are made th rough the free exchange ma rke t. Such t ran sac t ions i n c l u d e, in p a r t i c u l a r, expenses for tou r i st and bus iness t ravel abroad, in su r an ce p r em ium s, and rem i t tances for f am i ly l iv ing expenses. A ll commissions due to domes t ic agen ts or rep re sen ta- tives of fo re ign f irms a r i s ing f r om impo r ts mu st be paid in Dom in ican pesos. A i r l ine tickets also must be paid in local cu r rency and are sub ject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the t i ck et is over RD$200, or f rom RD$5 to RD$25 when the p r ice is RD$200 or less. In p r in c ip l e, exchange for p a ym e n ts for inv i s ib l es is made ava i lab le w i t h in f ive days f rom rece ipt of the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC application. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 28 products or subproducts, mainly food- s tuffs, are prohibited, and 38 others, mainly intermediate goods, requ ire export licenses. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special committee. Within two working days of receiving paymen t, exporters of Dominican products must surrender to the Central Bank, through the com- mercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. va lue of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices estab- lished by CEDOPEX. Exempt f rom the exchange sur- render requirements are firms operating in industrial free zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days f rom the da te of shipment w i thout authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The fo re ign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the com- merc ial b ank s. The import of Dominican banknotes and coin is prohibited. Capital Inwa rd capital rem i t tances are subject to authorization by the Director of Foreign Inves tment and must be converted into pesos through commercial banks. Law No. 861 of J u ly 22, 1978 conso l ida ted and amplified the r egu l a t ions gove rn ing direct fo re ign investments issued u n d er Law No. 251 ( a nd accompany ing Regula- t ion No. 1679) of May 11, 1964, and established the office of the Director of Foreign Inves tmen t. Such i n v e s tm e n ts must be registered with the Central Bank if the investor is to be ab le to rem it d iv idends through the off ic ial exchange ma rket up to an annual max imum of 18 per cent of the registered va lue; d iv idends eligible for rem i t tance abroad will be conver ted in to fore ign exchange at the prevailing rate of exchange. Dividends in excess of the a n n u al l im it may be reinvested; alter- n a t iv e ly, according to Law No. 861, they may be loaned in local cu r rency to en terpr ises u n d e r t a k i ng approved econom ic ac t iv i t ies, p rov ided that the loan ma tu r i ty is not less than eight years, that the in terest rate is not mo re t h an 6 per cent, and that the y e a r ly amor t iza t ion does not exceed more t h an 20 per cent of the amount of the loan. Fu r the rmo re, accord ing to Law No. 861, d iv idends f r om re inves tmen ts of amor t iza t ion and inter- est p aym en ts on the loans men t ioned above may not exceed 30 per cent of the fore ign exchange earn ings of the rec ip ient en terpr ises. Law No. 861 assigns priority to inv e s tm en ts in the export sector or in any other sector wh ich wou ld con t r ibu te to an imp rovement in 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC the balance of payments; it also reserves certain sectors (defense and national security, all means of mass com- munication, internal land and air transportation, and fores try) for domestic enterprises; certain other sectors (agriculture, poultry and livestock raising, fishery, finan- cial intermediation, and insurance) are reserved for domestic enterprises or "mixed enterprises" (i.e., where national ownership is between 51 and 70 per cen t ). Registration may cover, besides the foreign exchange involved, the value of machinery and equipment, tools, instruments, accessories, and spare parts. Upon the liquidation of a direct foreign investment, capital gains may be remitted up to a limit of 2 per cent per annum for a cumulative total of 20 per cent of the registered amount. Applications for approval of ou tward capital remittances must be submitted to the office of the Director of Foreign Investment. Applications by resi- dents to transfer capital abroad to make por tfo l io invest- ments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government with the prior authorization of the Con- gress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guarantee the provi- sion of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. Foreign contracts by the private bank and nonbank sectors are approved by the Central Bank according to the following scale of priorities: export promotion, import subs t i tu t ion, expansion of local production, and import financing. For the second and third categories, fore ign loans are not authorized if the repayment sched- ule is less than four years. For import financing, the repayment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except for capital goods. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num i sm a t ic purposes. With this excep t ion, residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and au thor ized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, in the Dom in ican Republic or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary au thor i t ies and indu s t r i al users. Changes during 1978 January 2. The percen tage of non res iden ts' salaries and ea rn ings which m ight be rem i t ted th rough the off ic ial fore ign exchange ma rket was reduced f rom 60 per cent to 40 per cent. 136 January 12. The Monetary Board resolved that the "commission for banking intermediation" could not exceed 2 per cent over the prevailing rates in the major foreign financial markets; moreover, "complementary commissions" could not exceed 0.5 per cent. The limit on the total cost of foreign financing, including interest and commissions, continued to be 12 per cent per annum. February 16. The Monetary Board resolved that firms receiving mining concessions must surrender to the Central Bank for exchange into local currency all of the foreign exchange received from their exports. March 1. The export of lobsters was prohibited and licenses were required for the export of garlic, onions, and sugar solutions. March 2. The Monetary Board resolved that travel agencies, agents, or operators of tours, etc. must pay in certain convertible currencies for the cost of accommo- dation after deducting commissions owed to foreign tour operators and allowing for normal discounts. Two working days after these payments have been received, the foreign exchange involved must be surrendered to the Central Bank. March 3. The Monetary Board resolved that hotels, restaurants, car rental agencies, and other commercial establishments accepting payments for goods and services through foreign credit cards must register with the Exchange Department of the Central Bank and must surrender the relevant foreign exchange received to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The resolu- tion authorized hotels to reclaim 10 per cent of the total amount of foreign exchange surrendered in order to import items that otherwise would be subject to restrictions. April 4. In connection with the Dominican Republic's acceptance of the Second Amendment of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, the Monetary Board redefined the parity between the Dominican peso and the U.S. dollar at un i ty without reference to gold content. June 1. Licenses were required for the export of pork meat. July 1. A reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Banks of the Dominican Republic and Argentina w i th in the LAFTA f ramewo rk entered into operation. The agreement involved a credit limit of US$1 million, plus an additional ma rg in of 10 per cent. July 22. Law No. 861 consolidated and amplified the regulations relating to direct foreign investment and the t rans fer of technology. The law established the office of the Director of Foreign Investment and trans- ferred responsibility for all such matters from the Mone- tary Board to that office. (The law was officially pub l ished on September 6, 1978.) December 8. The 12 per cent ceiling on interest charges on fore ign loans was eliminated by resolution of the Monetary Board. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange ma rke ts. In the off ic ial ma rke t, the Cen tral Bank of Ecuador m a i n t a i ns rates of S/ 24.80 buy ing, and S/ 24.95 selling, per US$1. The b u y i ng and selling rates for other cu r renc ies1 are o f f i c i a l ly quoted on the basis of d a i ly buy ing and se l l ing rates against the U.S. dollar in fore ign markets. Export proceeds, import paymen ts, ce r ta in se t t lemen ts of inv i s i- bles, government and pub l ic sector t ran sac t ion s, and some capital t ransac t ions of the p r iv a te sector are negotiated in the o f f ic ial ma rke t. W i th some excep t ions (see be low ), all other transactions are conducted in the free ma rke t, in which the exchange ra te fluctuates but where the Cen tral Bank in te rvenes. The f r ee m a rk et b u y i ng and se l l ing rates on December 28, 1978 were S/ 26.44 and S/ 26.84, respec t ive ly, per US$1. A few transac t ions (such as p r in ted m a t e r i a l) may be made in e i ther of the two markets. In add i t ion, loan capital f rom i n t e r n a t i o n al agencies and fo re ign, gove rnmen ts to the G o v e r nm e nt and to pub l ic i n s t i t u t i o ns is conver ted at the rate of S/ 25 per US$1. Exchange transac t ions of oil companies are also effected at the rate of S/ 25 per US$1. Pr iva te oil companies are subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to both purchases and sales, but state oil com- pan ies are exempt w i th respect to purchases and sales of fo re ign currenc ies for compensa t ion opera t ions. Ex ternal loans are sub ject to a tax th at var ies be tween 0.5 per cent and 2 per cent for ma tu r i t ies of 6 to 24 months. Exempted f rom th is tax are (1) loans of more than 24 months; (2) loans f rom fo r e ign gove rnmen ts and in t e rn a t ion al agencies; (3) loans to the pub l ic sector; and (4) supp l ie r s' credits invo lv ing no in f low of fo re ign exchange. Ecuador f o rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, w i th effect f rom August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Mone ta ry Board has au tho r i ty to s h i ft t ran sac t ions between the two exchange ma rke ts and has ex tens ive powers w i th respect to import policy. The o f f ic ial exchange ma rket is under the control and supe rv is ion of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers fo re ign cap i ta l. Imports which enter as pa rt of a direct inves tment and impo r ts by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the 1 A r g e n t i ne pesos, A u s t r a l i an dollars, A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, B raz i l ian cruze iros, Canad ian dollars, Chilean pesos, Colombian pesos, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, French f r an c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japa- nese yen, Mex ican pesos, Ne the r lands gu i lders, No rweg ian k rone r, P a r agu ay an gua ran ies, P e r u v i an soles, pounds s ter l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swedish k r o n e r, Swiss f ranc s, U r u g u a y an new pesos, and Venezue lan bolivares. Gove rnment requ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry, Commerce, and In tegra t ion and, when exemp t ions f r om fiscal charges are sought, by the M in i s t ry of Finance. However, all applications for impo rt licenses by i n d u s t r i al firms must be subm i t ted to the Cen t ral Bank. Foreign inves tment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Inves tment Council. Prescription of Currency Most se t t lemen ts w i th the German Democratic Repub- l ic, Hunga ry, Poland, and R om a n ia must take place th rough b i la teral accounts. There is a reciprocal cred it ag reement w i th A rg en t in a. Paymen ts be tween Ecuador and Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Co lomb ia, Cuba, the Domini- can Repub l ic, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezue la must be made th rough accounts ma in ta ined w i th each o ther by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other cen t ral banks concerned, w i th in the f r am ewo rk of the mu l t i la te ral c lea r ing system of the La t in Ame r ican Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Exchange proceeds f rom o ther coun t r ies must be received in conver t ib le currenc ies. Whenever possible, impo rt p aym en ts must be made in the currency s t ipu la ted in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Perm i t ted impor ts are divided in to two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (Group A) and semiessential goods (Group B), and List II, consisting of less essen t ial and luxu ry goods. All goods not included in these two lists are p roh ib i ted. Prior import licenses are requ ired for all perm i t ted impor ts, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions: books, news- papers, periodicals, and p r in ted or recorded mus ic may be imported freely w i thout a license aga inst payment through the f ree marke t; if the impor ter applies for a license, exchange w i ll be made ava i lab le at the off ic ial rate. Medicines and spare pa r ts for mach inery and au tomo t ive vehicles are f ree of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less. In add i t ion, the State Petroleum Corpora t ion may import supplies, materials, and equip- ment necessary for the conduct of its business du r ing emergency situations w i thout obtaining a prior import license. A few goods may be imported only f rom LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irre- spective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropr ia te import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayment of 80 per cent of import duties has been made, that an advance deposit has been paid, and that a certificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR of the import upon p resen ta t ion of the sh ipp ing docu- ments. The Central Bank may au tho r ize advance import paymen ts w i th official exchange up to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value, prov ided the impor ter has paid the corresponding amount in local currency and has depos- ited, as a guaran tee, an add i t ional 15 per cent of the va lue in sucres. The guarantee deposit is re tu rned at the t ime of customs c learance. Import licenses wh ich do not en t i t le the impor ter to fore ign exchange at the off ic ial rate (permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods f inanced f rom the proceeds of certain i n t e r n a t i o n al loans, prov ided th at these have been regis- tered at the Cen t ral Bank, but such licenses are not requ ired to impo rt the goods concerned. Many imports are sub ject to advance deposit require- men ts. The deposit, which must be m a i n t a i n ed for 180 days, is 50 per cent for barley and automobiles and certain other vehicles, 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II, and 10 per cent for goods on List I-B. There are va r ious exemp t ions .2 Most impo r ts are sub ject to a tax of 5 per cent lev ied on commerc ial t ransac t ions. Fu r the rmo re, all goods are sub ject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue, unless they represent g i f ts or fo re ign loans. Many goods in List II are sub ject to an impo rt surcharge of 30 per cent ad va lo rem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for paymen ts in respect of ce r ta in cu r rent invisibles may be ob ta ined f r om the Cen tral Bank at the official rate. These t ran sac t ions in invisibles are, in principle, limited to interest on fo re ign loans that have been registered at the Cen tral Bank, d iv idends and profits on fo re ign investments registered at the Cen tral Bank, paymen ts by the Government and pub l ic en t i t ies, and the necessary expenses of Ecuado rans s tudy ing at universities abroad, medical expenses, and adve r t is ing costs. Pr iva te sector interest paymen ts may not exceed 10 per cent; there is no ceiling for in terest paymen ts by the pub l ic sector. With respect to loans to petroleum companies, interest, comm iss ion, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equ iva lent of 2 per cent above the ra tes of in terest of the creditor coun t ry; moreover, a n n u al amo r t iza t ion may not exceed the sum of und is t r ibu ted p ro f i ts, deprec ia t ion of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any va r ia t ion in work- ing capital. There are also l im i ts on s tudent allowances, travel expenditures, and "other" invisibles eligible for the official rate, but amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts may be purchased in the free market. Most other paymen ts for cu r rent inv is ib les mu st be settled in the free market and are unres tr ic ted. There are no l im i ta t ions on the amoun ts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 700 for - The deposit is waived for goods on List I wh en impo r ted on a ba r ter basis against exports of bananas, creme de cacao, and sugar. 138 each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are sub ject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for depar ture f rom Ecuador and 4 per cent for the re tu rn trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure the fu ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued free ly, sub ject to guaran tee. No su r render is required for exports effected under licensed ba r ter transac t ions. M i n im um reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas, coffee, cacao, and semi- finished produc ts of cacao to help ensu re the fu ll sur- render of the exchange proceeds. Re fe rence prices are also established for exports of crude pe tro leum; these serve as the basis for the ca lcu la t ion of taxes, royalties, etc. Cer ta in commod i t ies are sub ject to export taxes, payab le at the t ime the export license is received, w i th the exception of the export tax on coffee which is pay- able at the t ime the export pe rm it is l iqu ida ted. An export tax of 25 per cent ad valorem is levied on cocoa beans; exports of coffee beans are sub ject to a sliding- scale tax which ranges f rom 26.5 per cent to 35 per cent. Sugar is exempted from the ad valorem export tax and receives a subsidy based on the f .o.b. va lue. The subsidy is received in the fo rm of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. There are other export taxes in addition to those men t ioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom specified invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank at the off ic ial rate. All other receipts, inc lud ing those f rom travelers, may be sold in the free ma rke t. Travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may free ly enter or leave the coun t ry through the free marke t. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax rang ing f rom 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New inves tmen ts require the prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is try of Indus try, Com- merce, and Integration and /or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investments for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortiza- tion. For foreign capital entering in the fo rm of machin- ery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Addi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification f rom the appropriate m in i s t ry that the declared va lue conforms to the actual va lue of the mach ine ry and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Depar tment of the Cen t ral Bank mus* subm it a recommenda t ion to the General Management of the Central Bank w i th in 30 days f rom receipt of the request for reg is tra t ion in the off ic ial market and all pertinent documen ta t ion. Thereaf ter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Cen tral Bank must approve or deny the registra- tion for fo re ign exchange purposes w i th in an add i t ional 30 days. In cer ta in cases, whe re all documen ta t ion has been subm i t ted, the Central Bank can p rov i s iona l ly register the inves tment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in fo re ign exchange g ran ted to the Government or to official en t i t ies may be registered for fore ign exchange purposes w i th the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all fo re ign loans, registra- t ion is manda to ry for s ta t is t ical purposes. In the case of supp l iers' cred i ts, no special reg is t ra t ion procedure is requ i red. Foreign n a t ion a ls are p roh ib i ted f rom own- ing ru r al proper t ies and f rom ow n i ng or op e r a t ing m i n i ng indu s t r i es w i t h in 30 m i les of Ecuador's coas t l ine or borders. The p a r t i c i p a t i on of fo re ign cap i tal as a direct inves tment in domestic who lesa l ing and r e t a i l ing, in con s t ruc t ion, and in real estate deve lopment is res tr ic ted. The M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry, Commerce, and In teg ra t ion does not au tho r ize d i rect fo re ign inves tment for e s tab l i sh ing pub l i c i ty f i rm s, comme rc ial broadcas t- ing s ta t ions, television s ta t ions, newspapers, and maga- zines. Foreign exchange may be ob ta ined at the off ic ial ra te for the w i t h d r aw al of fo re ign inv e s tm ent f r om Ecuador five years a f t er the da te of reg i s t ra t ion, on the basis of a schedu le agreed by the Cen t ral Bank. P ro f i ts a c cumu- la ted in p r ev ious years may be r e p a t r i a t ed a lso on the bas is of a schedu le agreed by the Cen t ral B ank for i n v e s tm e n ts for wh ich the r eg i s t r a t ion p rocedu re for fo re ign exchange pu rpo ses has been comp le ted. For i n v e s tm e n ts reg is tered on a p rov i s ion al bas is, p ro f i ts may not be r e p a t r i a t ed t h r o u gh the o f f i c i al m a r k e t. P ro f it r em i t t a n c es may not exceed the l im it (20 per cent a yea r) specified in the Fo re ign Inv e s tm ent Code of the A n d e an Pact. R e s id en ts who a re p r i v a te i n d i v i d u a ls a re not g r a n t ed o f f ic ial f o r e i gn exchange to pu rcha se s e cu r i t i es or real estate abroad. Comme rc ial banks a re au tho r i z ed to m a i n t a in accoun ts w i th co r respondent b a n ks ab ro ad in c o n v e r t i b le cu r renc ie s. Gold Re s iden ts o ther th an the C en t r al B ank may export gold o n ly in the f o rm of f i l ig ree w o r k, the gold con t ent of wh ich does not rep resent mo re t h an 25 per cent of its m a r k et v a l u e. Impo r ts of m o n e t a ry gold a re rese rved ECUADOR for the Central Bank; such imports are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of nonmone tary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also trea ted as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Gold bars are exempt f rom import duty, while the duty on semiworked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem; semi- worked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes during 1978 January 23. Ministerial Decree No. 2183 established that for the period December 15, 1977-February 15, 1978 coffee exporters could pay the export tax due at the lowest rate (26.5 per cent) of the sliding scale imposed in Ju ly 1977. The same decree required that the payment of the tax be made at the time the export permit was issued. January 31. Ministerial Decree No. 2227 prohibited the importation of motors us ing light or medium-weight fuel by electric utilities operating with credit guaranteed by the Government. February 9 and March 7. Ministerial Agreements Nos. 1389 and 1398 of December 14, 1977 published in February and March of 1978, respectively, approved 50 per cent of the raw material import quota for those enterprises whose activities were covered by the Indus- trial Development Law. March 10. M in is ter ial Decree No. 2328-A increased import duties on a number of categories of motor vehicles. The ad valorem du ty rates applicable to impo r ts of small trucks, microbuses, and tractors were ma rked ly increased. March 10 and April 5. Monetary Board Resolutions Nos. 995 /78 and 997 /78 modified the regulations gov- e rn ing impor ts of commercial vehicles and chassis. The import of t rucks w i th a loading capacity of less than a ton, p rev ious ly inc luded in List II, was prohibited. Ce r ta in vehicle chassis were t rans fe r red f rom List II to List I but impor ts would requ ire the prior authorization of the M in i s t ry of Pub l ic Works and Communications. Chassis for vehicles w i th a load ing capac i ty of two to three tons were inc luded in List I-B and those for veh ic les w i th a load ing capacity of one to two tons in List II. March 15. Agreement No. 133 of the M in is try of Indu s t ry, Commerce, and In tegra t ion allowed the resump- t ion of some exports of d a i ry produc ts, such as hard and sem ihard cheese, subject to p r ior au tho r iza t ion. March 28. M in i s te r ial Ag reement No. 280 au thor ized the expo r ta t ion of 25 per cent of the 1978 domestic p roduc t ion of unprocessed cacao. The amount of cacao exports was subsequen t ly set at 17,500 tons in te rms of vo lume. March 29. By Mon e t a ry Board Regu la t ion No. 996 exchange proceeds f rom pe t ro leum exports had to be su r rende red to the Cen t ral B a nk 60 days a f ter sh ipment 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR in the case of private exporters and 120 days after shipment if the exports were made by the State Petro- leum Corporation. (This Regulation was annulled by Regulation No. 1017; see entry for December 20, below.) March 30. Ministerial Resolution No. 08 permitted coffee exporters to pay the export tax when the export permit was liquidated rather than at the time it was issued. June 19. Ministerial Decree No. 2605-C granted tax credit certificates to exporters of Manila hemp in an amount equivalent to 4 per cent of the f.o.b. value. October 12. The State Petroleum Corporation was authorized to import supplies, materials, and equipment necessary for conducting its business during emergency situations without having to obtain an import license. The Central Bank was authorized to sell to the State Petroleum Corporation at the official exchange rate the foreign exchange needed for such purchases (Decree No. 2947 registered October 24 ). November 21. The tax on exports of coffee was permitted to fluctuate between 26.5 per cent and 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value (Decree No. 2995). December 20. By Monetary Board Regulation No. 1017 proceeds from petroleum exports had to be sur- rendered to the Central Bank 60 days after shipment in the case of private exporters and according to the terms of the contract if the export was made by the State Petroleum Corporation. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on January 1, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at the rate of LE 1 =US$1.42857.l The established buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on J anu a ry 1, 1979 were LE 0.700, and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 14 other convertible currenc ies are based on cross rates quoted in New York .2 A special exchange rate applies to t ransac t ions und er b i la te ral paymen ts agree- men ts w i th coun tr ies wh ich are not members of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund and to l iqu ida t ion accounts related to past b i la teral paymen ts agreements. This ra te is equ iva lent to LE 1 = US$2.55555, the official r a te p r ev a i l ing pr ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1979. In add i t ion, ce r ta in transac t ions take place at free ly negotiated exchange rates. Forward cover is ava i lab le for fore ign trade transactions. Banks do not requ i re prior exchange con- trol approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the M in i s t ry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation, and is imple- men ted under the superv is ion of the Unde rsec re ta ry for Foreign Exchange A f f a i r s. A foreign exchange budget is established annu a l ly. Banks are authorized to execute fore ign exchange transactions, w i th in the framework of a general authorization, w i thout the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The M in is try of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation supervises imports and exports, but controlled imports are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regulations manua l. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the pro- ceeds from exports of raw cotton to convertible cur- aP r ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1979, the official ra te for the Egyp t ian pound was LE 1 = US$2.55555, but a large vo lume of transac t ions took place at the para l lel ra te, wh i ch was equ iv a l ent to the present rate. Unifi- cation of the two rates took place on J a n u a ry 1, 1979 when the final groups of t ransac t ions were t r an s f e r r ed f rom the fo rmer official rate to the parallel ra te. 2 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche m a r k, French f ranc s, I t a l i an lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish k ron e r, and Swiss francs. rency coun tr ies must be received in deutsche mark, Swiss f rancs, or U.S. dollars (in addition, for exports to Aus t r ia, Belgium, France, Japan, and the United K ingdom, in the currencies of those countries). Settlements with countries with which Egypt has b i la teral paymen ts agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.3 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain se t t lemen ts w i th countries with which indemnity agree- men ts concern ing compensation for nationalized prop- erty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by d eb i t ing Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign Currency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency and balances are retransferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts 4 In add i t ion to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral paymen ts agreements or to the indemn i ty agree- men ts concluded with certain countries, there are four main types of accounts which may be opened by non- residents : Free Accounts, Special Accounts, D Accounts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in a foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Accounts may be credited w i th transfers of convertible currency or with the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with transfers from other Free Accounts; with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign banknotes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments abroad in a convertible currency; for transfers to other Free Accounts and to Special Accounts; for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment; for any payments in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. 3 On J a n u a ry 1, 1979, Egypt m a i n t a i n ed b i la te ral paymen ts agree- men ts w i th People's Republic of Ch ina, Ge rman Democratic Repub- lic, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Sudan, and U.S.S.R. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facili- ties have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central banks of Jordan and Mali. There are also inoperative a r r ang em en ts w i th the Yemen A rab Republic and the People's Democra t ic Repub l ic of Yemen. 4 The exchange control regu la t ions issued on November 27, 1976 e l im ina ted m a ny of the previous differences in trea tment of resident and nonresident persons. D Accounts and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts are by the ir n a tu re limited to nonresidents, while accounts for the re ten t ion of fo re ign cu r r en cy receipts f r om exports and non- fac tor services are in effect limited to residents. Other accounts are f r ee of residency distinctions. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Special Accounts in fore ign currency may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, pub l ic authorities, and public sector entities. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of acceptable foreign banknotes; w i th transfers from Free Accounts or other Special Accounts; and w i th interest on the accounts. They may be debited for paymen ts for impor ts; for e i ther t r an s f e rs abroad or purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of pay- ment to cover the expenses abroad of the account holder or his f am i ly (w i th in a limit of LE 3,500 a y e a r ); for other authorized paymen ts abroad; for local fore ign currency paymen ts; and for purchases of foreign bank- notes or other means of payment for use in Egypt. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a coun t ry w i th which Egypt has a bilateral paymen ts agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the pa r tner coun t ry concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respec- tive paymen ts agreement and with the equ iva lent of t rans fe rs authorized to the coun t ry of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the coun t ry of the account ho lder and for local p aym en ts ( inc lud ing those for Egyptian expo r ts) authorized by the imp lemen t ing regulations and w i th in the scope of the relevant payments agreement. There are also Nonconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside of Egypt which is not remit- table under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due f rom the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities and for payments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are nonconvertible; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients of the proceeds f rom certain exports and nonfactor services, and may be credited with the proceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for payments in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activities or for surrender of the foreign currency. With certain exceptions, any balances in such accounts on June 30 or December 31 of any calendar year must be used within three months or surrendered. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally, although most types of commodi- 142 ties may be imported provided the necessary foreign exchange is acquired outside the official market. All imports are financed at the established rates with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agree- ments w i th countries that are not members of the Fund, which are financed at a special rate equivalent to the fo rmer official rate, and imports that take place under the "own exchange" arrangements. Most impor ts f rom payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- m e n t s ), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sector importers of "own exchange" or "open license" impor ts must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. A Supreme Council for the P lann ing of Foreign Trade is en trus ted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import p lan, and supervising the execution of the fore ign exchange budge t. The ministries concerned are responsible for setting priorities regarding imports and the ir t im ing. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, indu s t ry, t ranspo r ta t ion, e tc . ). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the au thor i t ies in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be impo r ted w i th in that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary au thor iza t ion for the implementation of import t ran sac t ion s. P r iva te sector impor ts through the official ma rket requ i re approval by the Commercial Agency. Impor ts are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by impo rt licenses. Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange at the established ra te for the importa- tion of certain commodities w i thout restriction. Such "open license" imports do not requ i re any pr ior approval and do not count against foreign exchange budget quotas. All commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of fore ign exchange in the off ic ial ma rket is involved. A special Determination Committee must first approve the transaction. Certain imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain essential foods tu f fs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at established rates. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tou r ism) in Free or Special Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire add i t ional fo re ign exchange through the med ium of Free or Special Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them foreign banknotes acquired through other channels that have not previ- ously been declared up to LE 200 a tr ip or LE 2,000 a year. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Egyp t ian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange which they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may recon- vert their rema in ing Egyptian pounds after deduction of LE 20 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, which may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and pe t ro leum are exported by the pub l ic sector only. Export proceeds other than those f rom books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated w i th in three mon ths f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Export proceeds may be retained in Foreign Exchange Re ten t ion Accounts. Proceeds f rom exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance w i th the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemn i ty accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Earn ings abroad by persons other than the Govern- men t, pub l ic au tho r i t ies, and other pub l ic sector entities may be held abroad or retained inde f in i te ly in Free Accounts. Receipts f rom the provision of local hotel, transpor t, or travel agency services to tour is ts may be re ta ined in Foreign Exchange Re ten t ion Accounts. M a ny public sector and other en t i t ies are permitted to re ta in all or part of the ir receipts f rom invisibles in Foreign Exchange Re ten t ion Accounts, and in many instances are exempt f rom the periodic surrender requ i remen ts applied to these accounts. Cer ta in travel in Egypt by -fore igners may be f inanced f rom va r ious special accounts, such as those under ind emn i ty agree- ments w i th certain countries. Persons a r r iv ing in Egypt f rom abroad may impo rt up to LE 20 in Egyp t ian bankno tes and are perm i t ted to b r ing in, and to use loca l ly, u n l i m i t ed am o u n ts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is requ ired if it is desired to re-export fo re ign c u r r e n cy or use it to open a Free Accoun t. Foreign trave lers must convert in to Egyp t ian currency the e q u i v a l e nt of LE 100 to ob ta in an en try visa. EGYPT Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad f u n ds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a fam i ly, to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family, and to export other personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyp t ian or foreign securi- ties. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the t ran s fer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or pay- ment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accord- ance with court orders. An amount not exceeding LE 9,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a family's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign nationality who leave the coun t ry pe rmanen t ly a f ter a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Nonconve r t ib le Capital Accoun t. Any payment of a capital n a tu re not rem i t tab le under the exchange control regulations mu st be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of J u ne 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of J u ne 9, 1977) Concern ing the Inves tment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the t r e a tm ent of new foreign investments. Requests for t r an s f e rs of p ro f i ts not covered by this law are considered on an ind iv idu al basis. Gold Au tho r ized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad, for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts, gold ( inc lud ing gold coins) and o ther precious metals. Au thor ized banks may import such gold and o ther precious metals for local deposit and may subsequen t ly re-export them. Certain persons other than the mone ta ry au thor i t ies, inc lud ing author- ized indu s t r i al users, are allowed to import precious me ta ls and stones for indu s t r ial and local market require- men ts. Expor ts of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, prov ided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in conve r t ib le cu r rency. Travelers are perm i t ted to carry out and b r ing in gold jewe lry w i t h in specified l im i ts. There is a f r ee m a rk et for gold coins in Cairo. Changes during 1978 January 3, The spread between the buy ing and selling rates in the pa ra l lel m a r k et was reduced f rom 2 per cent to 1 per cent w i th the a d j u s tm e nt of the selling 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT rate f rom LE 0.714 per US$1 to LE 0.707 per US$1. June 21. Ministerial Decree No. 889 added new items to the open general license system, bringing the imports covered by the scheme to approximately 10 per cent of total imports. June 28. The bilateral payments arrangement with Ghana was terminated. July 1. Imports of tea and edible oil were shifted from the official rate to the parallel rate. July 2. Ministerial Decree No. 202 shifted the rema in- ing invisible transactions in convertible currency from the official rate to the parallel rate with the exception of SUMED pipeline revenues, international and general obligations due on behalf of the Government or the Central Bank, and installments and interest due on transactions effected at the official rate. July 19. The bilateral payments arrangement with Somalia was terminated. August 29. All public sector entities were required to refer to the Central Bank before incurring an external debt in convertible currency, whether in the form of a direct loan or suppliers' credit, with an original maturity of more than one year. October 1. Under Ministerial Decree No. 1036, a new foreign trade manual was published amalgamating and revising the existing export and import regulations. December 31. The bilateral payments arrangement with Greece was terminated. The following changes took place at the beginning of 1979: January 1. The following remaining transactions were shifted from the official rate to the parallel rate: exports of raw cotton, rice, petroleum and petroleum products; imports of wheat, wheat flour, sugar, fertilizers, insecti- cides, and noncapital imports of the petroleum sector; and all remaining invisible transactions. With these transfers, the unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at the previously prevailing parallel rate was completed. A special exchange rate continued to apply to transactions under bilateral payments agree- ments with countries that are not members of the Inter- national Monetary Fund, and to liquidation accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. January 1. The bilateral payments arrangement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of El Sa lvador is the Sa lvado ran Colon, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. d o l l a r, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r- rency, at 0 2.50 = US$1. The ra tes of the Cen t ral Reserve Bank for t r an s a c t ions w i th the pub l ic a re <£ 2.49 b u y i n g, and (Z 2.51, s e l l i n g, per US$1. Exchange t r an s a c t ions by comm e r c i al b a n ks w i th the pub l ic take p lace w i t h in these l im i t s. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for o ther cu r renc ies are based on the d a i ly quo ta t ions for the U.S. do l l ar in m a r k e ts abroad. A s t amp tax of 0.1 per cent is app l i c ab le to all sales of exchange; on am o u n ts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed am o u n ts t h at may be s l i g h t ly in excess of 0 .1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Sa lvador no t i f i ed the Fund t h at it was p repa red to f o rm a l ly accept the ob l iga t ions of A r t i c le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund A g r e em e n t. Administration of Control Subject to any d i rec t ives issued by the Mone ta ry Boa rd, exchange con t rol au tho r i ty is exercised by the C e n t r al Reserve B ank t h r o u gh i ts Exchange Control D e p a r tm e n t. A u t h o r i ty to approve c e r t a in paymen ts, i n c l u d i ng most impo rt p a ym e n t s, is delegated to the c omm e r c i al bank s. Exchange licenses for impo r ts must be ob ta ined f r om the Exchange Con t rol Depa r tmen t. Expo r ts of a n um b er of commod i t ies requ i re licenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy or of Ag r icu l tu re. Expor ts of coffee are supe rv ised by the Sa lvadoran Coffee Comp any and r equ i re l icenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy. Prescription of Currency P a ym e n ts to o ther member coun t r ies of the Cen t ral Am e r i c an Common Ma rket ( C A CM )1 in respect of t r ade and spec if ied inv i s ib les mu st be settled in the cu r r en c i es of those coun t r ies or in Sa lvado ran colones t h r o u gh the Cen t ral Am e r i c an C lea r ing House. Pay- m en ts to Mexico are also settled th rough the C lear ing House. Otherwise, res iden ts are f ree to make au tho r- ized p aym en ts in any cu r rency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited d ip loma t ic m iss ions and other fo re ign i n s t i t u t i o ns or persons established in El Salvador may hold non re s ident accoun ts in fo re ign cu r rency w i th authorized banks provided that such accounts are credited w i th fo r e ign exchange received f rom abroad. Banks may also f r e e ly open fo re ign cu r rency accounts, for any period of t ime and in any amoun t, in the names 1 Costa R ica, G u a t em a l a, Hondu ra s, and N ica ragua. of phys ical persons (wh e th er of fo r e ign or Salvadoran n a t i o n a l i t y) who res ide abroad, and, for a m ax imum pe r iod of six mon th s, in the names of fore ign persons s t a y i ng in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six mon th s. A ll non r e s id ent accoun ts may be utilized f r e e l y, but the comme rc ial b anks must make periodic repo r ts to the C en t r al Reserve Bank of the movemen ts on such accoun ts. Imports and Import Payments Impo rt l icenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Econ- omy and are requ i red for on ly a few i tems, inc lud ing a i r p l a n e s, f i r e a rm s, amm u n i t i o n, m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t, d y n am i t e, co t ton for i n d u s t r i al use, j u te sacks, skins, l e a th e r, some chem ical and pha rmaceu t ical produc ts, co f fee for seed ing, suga r, and sacchar in. Impo r ts f r om a ll coun t r i es mu st be reg is tered w i th the Cen t ral Reserve Bank be fo re orders are placed; orders for impo r ts f r om coun tr ies ou ts ide Central America mu st be app roved by the Exchange Con trol Depar tmen t. For c e r t a in goods th at are considered luxury com- m o d i t i es ( i n c l u d i ng a i rp lanes, boats, alcoholic bever- ages, tobacco, p e r f um e s, cosmetics, watches, jewelry, a u t om o b i l e s, f u r n i t u r e, domes t ic app l iances, rugs, photo- g raph ic e q u i pm e n t, and f u r s) and rep resen t ing about 4 per cent of the to tal va lue of impo r t s, the Exchange Con t rol D ep a r tm ent cannot au thor ize impo r ta t ion, un l e ss an advance depos it r equ i r em en t, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue, is met in local currency. In a d d i t i o n, the c . i . f. va lue of the goods being imported mu st be pa id at the t ime of impo rt reg is t ra t ion. Impo r ts f r om coun t r ies outside the Central American C omm on Ma rket that app ly d i sc r im ina to ry restrictions aga inst expor ts f r om El Salvador must be paid for before cus toms c lea rance, w i th the exception of indus t r ial raw m a t e r i a l s, wh ich may be paid for w i th in three years (m ed i c in es f r om Mexico may be paid for w i th in 90 days; th is app l ies also to impo r ts of spare parts f rom Mexico by impo r te rs who are regarded as small e n t e r p r i s e s ). For comme rc ial imports, the commerc ial banks are au tho r ized to provide exchange for a ll import payments up to US$200 for each order. When suppliers abroad request p aym ent in advance, a prior deposit of 10 per cen t, ca lcu la ted on the va lue of the advance paymen t, is requ i red f r om the impo r ter as a guarantee, but those goods sub ject to the 100 per cent prior import deposit, goods valued at US$500 or less, and imports by indus- t r i al and ag r icu l tu ral firms may be exempted. Guar- an tee deposits are r e fund ed when the goods arrive in the coun t ry, provided that payment has been made in f u ll to the exporter. Impo r ts f rom other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are exempt from 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR the exchange control regu la t ions described above. Impo r ts f r om P an ama that are covered by the Free Trade Ag reement of June 2, 1970 are also exempt. Under the provisions of the Cen t ral Am e r i c an Agree- ment on Fiscal Incen t ives, El Salvador gran ts du ty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indus t r ial firms. Impor ts o r ig ina t ing ou ts ide the Cen t ral Ame r ican Common Ma rket are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the app l icab le impo rt du ty; the surcharge is not applied to ce r ta in indu s t r ial equ ipment and raw ma te r ia ls that are f ree of du ty by v i r tue of the Indu s t r i al Incen t ive Law. M any nonessen t ial goods are subject to a selective consump t ion tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25 or 30 per cent. Goods of Cen t ral Am e r i c an o r ig in are exempt. Payments for Invisibles The comme rc ial banks are au tho r ized to sell fore ign exchange, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion f r om the Cen tral Rese rve B ank, for subscriptions to fo re ign l i te ra ry societies, correspondence courses, and membersh ips in p ro f e s s ion al clubs and o rgan iza t ions. They are also au tho r ized to sell fo re ign exchange for travel for tour- ism, or bus iness, as ind ica ted below. The basic exchange a l loca t ion wh ich banks may make ava i lab le for t ravel outside the Cen tral Amer ican area ( i n t e r p r e t ed to mean the Cen t ral Am e r i c an Common M a r k e t) is US$2,000 a person a t r ip for both adu l ts and c h i l d r e n. This a l loca t ion also applies to travel w i th in the C e n t r al Am e r i c an area if the person is t rave l ing by a ir; if the person is t rave l ing by land the basic e x c h a n ge a l loca t ion that banks may make ava i lab le is US$500 a person a t r ip for both adu l ts and ch i ldren. A d d i t i o n al amoun ts in excess of US$2,000 may be au tho r ized by the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t, pro- vided that a gu a r an t ee deposit in local currency cor- respond ing to 10 per cent of the excess over the basic a l loca t ion is lodged w i th the Cen tral Reserve Bank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's re tu rn. In addition to the basic exchange a l loca t ion, fore ign exchange is made ava i lab le to cover med ical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000 if the patient buys the exchange in El Salvador and up to US$6,000 if the f u n ds are directly rem i t ted abroad. The US$6,000 l im it may also be exceeded with the approval of the Central Reserve Bank, provided that proof of add i t ional medical expenses is submitted. Local banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to US$600 a person a month for f am i ly remittances to Salvadoran nationals abroad and for study abroad. Local banks are also authorized to sell exchange for s tudy purposes in add i t ion to the above quota, upon presentation of evidence of installation expenses, tuition costs, and other expenses. For Salvadoran nationals trave l ing to Central Amer ican countries, the commercial banks have been delegated au thor i ty to provide exchange 146 up to the amoun ts mentioned above in Costa Rican colones, Hondu r an lempiras, N ica raguan cordobas, or G u a t em a l an quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones ( f or payment th rough the Central American C lear ing Hou se ). Requests for larger amoun ts must be submitted for approval to the Central Reserve Bank. In t e rn a t ion al sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or d ip lom a t ic travel is exempt. In su r an ce and reinsurance p rem iums may be paid in fo r e ign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered w i th the Exchange Control Department at the t ime it took effect. A l te rna t ive ly, insurance com- pan ies may receive p rem iums in colones and periodi- cally ob ta in f rom the Exchange Control Department au tho r iza t ion to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to t r a n s f er abroad. Foreign currencies derived f rom in su rance or re insurance contracts must be su r rende red to the Central Reserve Bank or to an au tho r ized commercial bank. Travelers may take out 0 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is subject to mod i f i c a t ion, however, to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Cen tral Ame r ican countries. Nonresident trav- elers may upon d ep a r tu re reconvert <£ 200 into foreign cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for some food- s t u f fs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequa te local supply, but the proceeds of all exports in excess of US$6,000 must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the fore ign exchange must be su r rende red to the Central Reserve Bank or an author- ized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of sh ipmen t. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be au tho r ized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may br ing in (Z 200 in domestic notes and coin. This l im it is subject to modifi- ca t ion, however, to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting f r om capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments by private ind iv idua ls in Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N icaragua. The en try of capital w i th a ma tur i ty in excess of one year in the fo rm of fore ign investment must be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy. Regis- t ra t ion ensures ( 1) free rem i t tance of net profits on fo re ign capital invested in indu s t r i al enterprises, enter- prises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewab le na tu ral resources, and enterprises in the field of tou r ism; (2) the rem i t tance of net p ro f i ts of enterprises engaged in other ac t iv i t ies up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the regis- tered capital ( la rger amoun ts may be authorized in special cases by the M in is try of E c o n om y ); (3) repatria- t ion of the proceeds f rom the to tal or partial l iqu ida t ion of the en te rp r ise ( a f t er payment of taxes) in proportion to the p a r t i c i p a t i on of fo re ign cap i tal in the to tal cap i ta l; (4) r em i t t an ce of the sales proceeds of shares and other i n s t r um e n ts represen t ing inve s tmen ts or par t ic ipa t ions, in c lud ing cap i tal ga ins; and (5) p a ym e nt of interest and amortization as de te rm ined at the t ime of reg is tra t ion. In the cases under (3) and ( 4 ), in add i t ion to the approval of the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t, the prior app roval of the M in i s t ry of Economy is requ ired. For- e ign inve s tmen ts made in El Salvador pr ior to June 1, 1961 mu st also be registered by the M i n i s t ry of Econ- omy or the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. The Exchange Control Depa r tment au thor izes, w i th- out res t r ic t ion, the r em i t t a n ce abroad of fore ign cur- rency for the payment of in terest and amo r t iza t ion on sho r t - te rm loans f r om abroad; fo re ign loans with a m a t u r i ty of up to one year must be au tho r ized by the EL SALVADOR Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a ma tu r i ty of more than one year must be authorized by the M in i s t ry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by fore ign nationals and for those in which foreign na t iona ls have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, fo re ign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Central Ame r ican Common Market. Gold Gold coins in denom ina t ions of <£ 25, 0 50, 0 100, and (2 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not c ircu la te. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for num i sma t ic purposes. With this excep- t ion, residents other than the mone tary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are gran ted for impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and indus t r ial users. In practice, impo r ts of nonmone ta ry unwo rked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and other users. Changes during 1978 No s ign if icant changes took place. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Gu inean Ekuele, which is issued by the People's Bank of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. The ekuele replaced the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency until July 12, 1977 when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Following the Spanish exchange rate action Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations w i th the excep- tion of some small transactions that take place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekuele and a currency basket.1 There are no fo rwa rd exchange facili- ties. There are no bank charges or commissions, but exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is exercised by the People's Bank and exchange transactions must be carried out through that bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the M in is t ry of Commerce; impo rt licenses also require the approval of the Presidency. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Spain must be made through pay- men ts agreement accoun ts denom ina ted in U.S. dollars, and paymen ts to the People's Repub l ic of China through an account denom ina ted in Swiss francs. Settlements w i th other coun tr ies are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commerc ial imports requ ire an import license. Licenses no rma l ly are issued w i th in the f ramewo rk of an annu al impo rt program. They do not entitle impor ters to the necessary foreign exchange until approved by the Presidency, a f ter wh ich, in principle, exchange is au toma t ica l ly made ava i lab le upon the a r r ival of the goods in Equa to r ial Gu inea; a l though most impo rt paymen ts are e f fec ted under irrevocable letters of cred i t, in prac t ice, ce r ta in de lays have ar isen. A s ta te t r a d i ng o rgan iza t ion, the Empresa Estatal de Comercio In ter ior y Exterior ( E SCO T ER ), has a monop-v oly over the impo r t a t ion of Pha rmaceu t ica l s, flour, rice, sugar, salt, olive oil, j u te bags, cemen t, and a ll govern- ment requ i remen t s. With the exception of impo r ts of cap i tal goods, a ll o ther impo r ts ( i n c l u d i ng food s tu f fs and ar t ic les of p r im a ry need under a commod i ty loan f rom 1 On A p r il 9, 1979 the ekue le was pegged to the SDR at the ra te of E K 90 = SDR 1. 148 the People's Republic of China) are made by state enterprises only. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the People's Bank. At present, the approval of most payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions by the private sector is suspended. Res iden ts2 are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of EK 10,000 a person a calendar year for tour ist travel abroad. The s tandard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of EK 2,000 a per- son a day, subject to a maximum of EK 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is in principle granted to cover tuition costs. The allowance for living expenses is up to the equivalent of EK 5,000 a month. For travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is made available only for expenses covered by original bills. In principle, the t rans fer of wages and salaries by alien residents, and of professional earnings as well as dividends by all residents, is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to Spain and up to 40 per cent for other countries, provided that annual earnings do not exceed EK 50,000. Larger t ran s fe rs are permitted when annual earnings exceed EK 50,000. Transfers abroad of professional earnings by nonresidents are, in principle, freely per- m i t ted, but any amoun ts in excess of 60 per cent of taxab le ea rn ings are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount t ran s fe r red. In addition, nonresidents as well as Equa to r ial Gu inean na t iona ls residing temporar i ly abroad are perm i t ted, in principle, to w i thdraw up to EK 5,000 a mon th f rom their savings accounts for remittance abroad. The t rans fer of net investment income, whether by residents or nonresidents, is subject to an annual limit of 50 per cent. In pr inc ip le, enterprises classified as "of na t ional interest" may t ran s fer abroad freely up to 25 per cent per a n n um of the net investment income generated by their expor t ing activities a f ter at least two years of operations. Any add i t ional t ran s fer is subject to a tax of 20 per cent. The t ran s fer abroad of net inve s tment income by enterprises classified as "of prefer- e n t i al interest" may be effected two years a f ter the start of opera t ions, but is subject to a 20 per cent tax. Any other en terpr ise w i th fo re ign capital par t ic ipa t ion may t ran s fer net inves tment income but such t rans fe rs are sub ject to a tax of 35 per cent of the amount t ran s fe r red. In the event of at least 30 per cent of such net invest- ment income be ing reinvested in approved projects in - Re s iden ts are d e f in ed as persons r em a i n i ng in Equa to r ial Gu in ea for mo re t h an s ix m o n t hs in a ca lendar y e ar or for mo re t h an s ix mon ths in two consecu t ive ca lendar years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Equa tor ial Gu inea, the incidence of tax is reduced to ha lf its no rmal level. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, t radema rks, and royalties are, in pr inc ip le, per- mitted freely, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EK 3,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ i re an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are gran ted; the la t ter are ava i lab le on ly to registered exporters. Licenses are no rm a l ly va l id for one year. A ll export proceeds mu st be su r rende red to the People's Bank. The Chamber of A g r i c u l t u r e, Commerce, and Indu s t ry, a pr iva te, non- p ro f i t, cooperative association, has ju r i sd ic t ion over the m a rk e t ing of most agr icu l tural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the People's Bank. Travelers may b r ing in any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coin but the impo rt of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. U n d er the Foreign Investment Law of J anu a ry 2, 1975 three categories of fo re ign inve s tment are recognized: ( 1) inves tmen ts "of na t ional interest" (m a i n ly in indus- t r i al or fo res tal enterprises engaged in the export t r a d e ); (2) inves tmen ts "of p re fe ren t ial interest" (m a i n ly in enterprises engaged in import sub s t i tu t ion ); and (3) inves tmen ts in ag r icu l tu ral and commercial enter- prises and in services. Inves tmen ts by nationals of or en t i t ies domiciled in Rhodesia and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Unless specific authorization is given by the EQUATORIAL GUINEA Presidency, the fore ign share in an Equatorial Guinean en te rp r ise may not exceed 50 per cent of the capital. The ba lance w i ll belong to the state in the case of categories (1) and (2) above and to n a t ion al or j u r i d i c al Gu inean entities in the case of other investments. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval, and the la t ter are not no rma l ly permitted. Capital receipts in fo re ign currency must be surrendered to the People's Bank. The t r an s f er abroad of funds f rom the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by non res iden ts is in principle permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be rem i t ted abroad immed ia te ly and the balance in 24 equal mon th ly in s ta l lmen t s. The sale of real estate, however, requ i res pr ior app rova l. Residents, as well as non res iden ts l iv ing in Equatorial Guinea, are prohibited f rom engag ing w i th nonresidents in borrow ing or lending. Gold All pu rchases and sales of m in ted gold and gold bars are cen tra l ized in the People's Bank, which also has a monopo ly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Comm emo r a t ive gold coins in denom ina- t i o ns of Equ a to r i al Gu in e an pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000 are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewe lry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1978 No s ign if icant changes took place. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of E th iop ia is the E th iop ian B i r r, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. do l la r, the in t e rv en t ion currency, at the o f f ic ial ra te of Br 2.07 = US$1. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for ce r ta in other cu r renc ies are also officially posted, w i th da i ly quo ta t ions by the Na t ional Bank of E th iop ia ( the cen t ral b a n k) on the basis of the off ic ial ra te for the U.S. dollar and the prev ious day's closing ra te of the cu r rency concerned aga in st the U.S. dollar in London. The N a t i o n al Bank does not deal w i th the pub l ic; i ts dea l ings in U.S. do l la rs w i th the au tho r ized b anks take place at the o f f ic ial ra te. Au tho r ized banks in d e a l i ng w i th the public must observe the o f f ic ial r a te for the U.S. do l lar and prescribed comm i s s ion charges, wh i ch accrue to the N a t ion al B ank, of 0.50 per cent b u y i ng and 1.50 per cent se l l ing; in a d d i t i o n, they are au tho r i z ed to levy service charges for t h e ir own account of 0.25 per cent buy ing and 0.75 per cent se l l ing and, for cu r renc ies o ther t h an the U.S. do l la r, to in c lude the m a r g i ns charged them by co r responden ts ab road. These comm i s s ions are app l ied also to the Na t ional Bank's dea l ings w i th the Gov e rnm ent and ce r ta in pub l ic sector en t i t ies. The comm iss ions levied on t ran sac t ions w i th the pub l ic resu lt in a spread of a p p r o x im a t e ly 3 per cent be tween b u y i ng and selling ra tes for a ll cu r renc ies quo ted. There are no taxes or subs id ies on pu rcha ses or sales of fore ign exchange. Au tho r ized banks requ i re the a p p r o v al of the N a t ion al Bank to und e r t ake f o rw a rd exchange t ran sac t ion s. Administration of Control All t ran sac t ions in fo re ign exchange must be carr ied out th rough au thor ized banks und er the control of the N a t ion al Bank. A ll paymen ts abroad r equ i re licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose off ice is a d iv is ion of the Na t ional Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Con tro l ler to ensu re the su r render of the fore ign exchange proceeds, and shipments requ i re pe rm i ts issued by that off ice. The M in is ter of Commerce and Tourism has s ta tu to ry au tho r i ty to proh ib i t, restrict, or regu la te impo r ts and exports. Prescription of Currency Ou tgo ing paymen ts are no rm a l ly made in convertible fore ign exchange app rop r ia te to the coun t ry of the recipient or in U.S. dollars.1 The net proceeds of exports must be received in a fo re ign currency that is free ly convertible, or in any other acceptable fo re ign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open non res ident accounts e i ther in b i rr or in 1 There is an ope ra t ional t r ade protocol w i th the G e rm an Demo- c ra t ic Repub l ic denom ina ted in U.S. dollars. 150 fo re ign currencies at authorized banks. Balances on non re s ident accoun ts may be f ree ly t rans fe r red abroad. T ran s fe rs between nonres ident accounts do not require p r ior app rova l, but t rans fe rab le b i rr accounts and fo re ign cu r r en cy accounts may not be m a in t a in ed concurrently. No res ident E th iop ian na t ional may m a in t a in a bank account abroad. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca a re pro- h ib i t ed. Impo rt licenses are not requ i red, but paymen ts abroad for impo r ts requ i re exchange licenses; in order to ob ta in such licenses, impor ters are requ i red to produce a va l id fo r e ign t r a d i ng license issued by the M in is t ry of Comme rce and Tourism. Approval of app l ica t ions for exchange l icenses is cond i t ional upon the provision of s a t i s f a c t o ry i n f o rm a t i on on costs and payment terms, and the subm iss ion of ev idence that adequa te insurance has been a r ranged w i th the E th iop ian Insu rance Cor- po r a t ion, p a r t i cu l a r ly for goods impo r ted und er letters of c red i t. Foreign exchange is not made available for impo r ts of goods ( in c lud ing passenger automobiles) cons ide red to be nonessen t ial or read i ly subs t i tu tab le by domes t ic produc ts. Exchange licenses are granted in the cu r rency app rop r ia te to the coun t ry of o r ig in, or in any conve r t ib le cu r rency that may be requested. Paymen ts by le t ter of credit, m a il t ran s fe r, te legraph ic t r an s f e r, or cash aga inst documen ts at sight are all no rm a l ly accept- able. However, the Na t ional Bank must be consulted rega rd ing impo r ts on a cash aga inst documen ts basis. Goods wh ich were previously subject to advance deposit r e q u i r em e n ts (about 100 items, mostly con sumer goods) may not be f inanced on an acceptance basis, and vir- t u a l ly no impo r ts take place on th is basis. Impo r ta t ion on supp l iers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and in te rmed ia te ma ter ia ls, pha rmaceu t ica ls, and m a c h i n e ry and t ranspo rt e q u i pm e n t, in wh ich case prior app roval of the te rms and cond i t ions of the credit is r equ i r ed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade t ran sac t ions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may rem it mon th ly up to 30 per cent of the ir net ea rn ings (but only for the first three years of the ir con tract if employed by the p r iva te sec to r ); they may rem it a m ax imum rang ing between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net ea rn ings du r ing the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final depa r tu re take out the same m a x im um amoun t, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remit mon th ly 30 per cent of their net earnings may remit up ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to 30 per cent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Students may be allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 upon departure for s tudy abroad and Ethiopian na t iona ls hav ing depend- ents pu rsu ing higher studies in accredited ins t i tu t ions abroad may be allowed to remit f u n ds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit prem iums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain l im i ts and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange for medical trea tment and travel abroad. Subject to proper provision hav ing been made for local taxation and to the presentation of the necessary documents, foreign com- panies may in principle remit dividends on the ir invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons t r av e l ing abroad are allowed fore ign exchange equ iva lent to Br 125 a day for a m a x im um period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the jou rn ey is made for business purposes; for tour ism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equ iva lent of Br 600 a year, which may be accumu la ted for two years. Trav- elers may take w i th them a max imum of Br 50 in E th iop ian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Exports of most cereals to any des t ina t ion other than D j ibou ti also are prohibited. Licenses to export livestock are l im i ted to five firms. Exports of oilseeds other than sesame and g roundnu ts are l im i ted to two pub l ic enterprises. A tempo ra ry suspension of exports of horsebeans came in to effect in late March 1977. All commodity exports require perm i ts f rom the Exchange Con tro l ler and some requ i re in add i t ion the approval of specified pub l ic bodies. When app ly ing for a pe rm i t, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the des t ina t ion, and the va lue. For exports on a c . i .f. basis, exporters must obtain f u ll insu rance f rom the Ethiopian In su rance Corpora t ion. The g r a n t i ng of a perm it by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that fore ign exchange receipts are su r rende red to the Na t ional Bank, genera l ly w i th in three mon ths, and that export proceeds are received in an app rop r ia te cu r rency (see section on P resc r ip t ion of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be su r rende red. Travelers may br ing in a m a x im um of Br 50 in E th iop ian cu r rency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on en try, and its re-export is sub- ject to au tho r i z a t ion, except in the case of tempo ra ry visitors. Reconvers ion of b i rr must be suppor ted by documen ta ry evidence of prior exchange of fo re ign currency. Capital Controls over capital movemen ts are designed to restrict outflows, to prec lude an u nw a r r a n t ed accumu la- ETHIOPIA tion of external debt, and to keep the authorities in fo rmed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange con trol authorities establishes evidence of receipt, wh ich is required for repa tr ia t ion. There is no prescription regard ing the currencies in which foreign inve s tmen ts may be accepted. Foreign capital may par t ic ipa te w i th the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale cons t ruc t ion, tou r ism, and the exploration for and p roduc t ion of hyd roca rbons and most other m in e r a l s. All recognized and registered fore ign invest- men ts may be t e rm in a t ed on presentation of documents regard ing l iqu id a t ion and payment of all taxes and other l i a b i l i t i e s. Subject to appropr ia te documen ta t ion, foreign bus inessmen hav ing nonregistered investments may t r a n s f er the ir cap i tal abroad on l iqu ida t ion and final depa r tu re f rom E th iop ia, but may not transfer more t h an Br 20,000 in any one ca lendar year; funds in excess of this am o u nt must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an au thor ized bank. Transfers by persons who are leav ing on te rm ina t ion of the ir employment con t rac ts w i th the Gove rnment or w i th p r iva te organiza- t ions are l im i ted to 40-50 per cent of the applicant's to tal net income, depend ing on ma r i tal status and on whe ther the app l icant has had free accommodation or not. T ran s fe rs by em ig ran ts who had operated their own bus inesses are res tr ic ted to Br 20,000 in any one c a l e n d ar year. Bo r row ing abroad requ ires exchange control approval and is res tr ic ted. No rma l ly, evidence must be presented t h at a ll poss ib i l i t ies for domestic bo r row ing have been exhau s ted. Au tho r ized banks may free ly place their f u n ds ab road, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acqu i re securities denom ina ted in fo re ign cur- rency w i t h o ut Na t ional Bank perm iss ion. Also, they need the pr ior app roval of the Na t ional Bank to over- d r aw th e ir accoun ts w i th fo r e ign corresponden ts, to bo r row f u n ds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign cu r rency. Gold The owne r sh ip of personal jewe l ry of which gold or p l a t i n um fo rms a pa rt is pe rm i t ted. Unless specifically au thor ized by the M in is ter of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or ref ined gold or p l a t i n um, or of gold or p l a t i n um in the fo rm of nuggets, ores, or bu l l ion, consti- tu t es an o f fense. New ly mined gold is sold by the T reasu ry to the N a t i o n al Bank. Impor ts and exports of gold in any f o rm other t h an j ew e l ry requ i re exchange l icenses issued by the N a t ion al Bank. Such licenses are not n o rm a l ly g ran ted except for impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities. Changes during 1978 January 9. The Na t ional Bank issued a list of imports (cons idered to be nonessen t ial or read i ly substitutable 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA by domestic goods) for which foreign exchange would not be made available. The list included over 60 items but the products concerned accounted for only a small share of total imports. On May 9, the list was expanded to include, among other items, passenger automobiles, cameras, and alcoholic beverages. May 17. The limit on the amount an emigrant, or an expatriate on final departure, may take out was reduced f rom Br 40,000 to Br 20,000. July 22. The National Bank required that it be con- suited, for the sake of better control, regarding all imports of goods on a cash against documents basis. An earlier notice, which came into effect on September 19, 1977, had applied only to nonessential goods. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of F i ji is the F i ji Do l la r, the v a lue of wh ich is de te rm ined on the basis of the fixed re la t ion sh ip between the F i ji do l l ar and a we igh ted basket of cu r ren- cies of Fiji's most im p o r t a nt t r a d i ng pa r tne r s. The exchange rate of the F i ji do l l ar in terms of the U.S. d o l l a r, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, is f ixed da i ly on the basis of quo ta t ions for the U.S. d o l l ar and o ther cu r ren- cies i n c l u d ed in the baske t. On December 29, 1978 buy- ing and s e l l ing rates for the U.S. d o l l ar were F$0.8180 and F$0.8214, respec t ive ly, per US$1. The Cen tral Mon e t a ry A u t h o r i ty of F i ji prov ides o f f i c i al quo ta t ions on ly for the U.S. do l la r. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. On Augu st 4, 1972, F i ji f o rm a l ly accepted the obliga- t ions of A r t i c le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the Central Mone ta ry A u t h o r i t y, ac t ing as agent of the Gove rnmen t. The Cen t ral Mone ta ry A u t h o r i ty delegates to au tho r ized dea le rs the au tho r i ty to approve no rm al impo rt paymen ts. Except w i th the specific pe rm i s s ion of the Cen t ral Mone- ta ry A u t h o r i t y, res iden ts of F i ji are r equ i r ed to o f fer for sale to an au thor ized dealer all f o r e i gn currenc ies they receive.1 The M in i s t ry of Commerce, Indu s t ry, and Cooperatives is re spon s ib le for the issue of import licenses, w i th the excep t ion of those for gold, which are issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance. Export licenses are issued by the Comp t ro l ler of Customs. Prescription of Currency T ransac t ions w i th a ll coun t r ies are sub ject to exchange con tro l. Settlements w i th residents of any coun t ry may be m ade in F i ji cu r rency th rough an External Account or in any fo r e ign cu r rency. Paymen ts for exports to any de s t ina t ion ou t s ide F i ji may be made in F i ji currency f r om an Ex te rnal Account or in any fo re ign currency. All paymen ts to Rhodes ia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A non r e s id en t2 may m a i n t a in an Ex te rnal Account in F i ji cu r rency or a fo re ign cu r rency account w i th an au tho r ized bank; such accoun ts may be opened w i thout the specific approval of the Central Mone tary Authority. These accoun ts may be cred i ted f ree ly w i th interest pay- able on the accoun t, paymen ts f rom other External 1 U n d er F i j i 's ex ch ange con t rol r egu l a t ion s, f o r e i gn cu r renc ies are a ll c u r r e n c i es o t h er t h an t he F i ji do l la r. 2 A n o n r e s i d e nt is a person or firm whose coun t ry of no rmal dom ic i le or e s t ab l i sh ed re s idence is a c o u n t ry ou t s ide F i j i. As rega rds ind i- v i d u a l s, a r e s i d e nt of F i ji is a person who e i ther has lived or in tends to con t inue l i v i ng in F i ji for at least three years. Accoun ts, the proceeds of sale of fo re ign currency or fo r e ign coin by the account ho lder, and F i ji cu r rency notes wh ich the a c count ho lder brought in to Fiji or acqu i red by deb it to an Ex te rnal Account or by the sale of f o r e i gn cu r r en cy in the c o u n t ry d u r i ng a tempo ra ry v i s i t. E x t e r n al A c coun ts also may be cred i ted w i th pay- m e n ts by re s iden ts for wh ich e i th er a general or specific a u t h o r i ty has been g iven. Ex t e rn al Accoun ts may be deb i ted for p a ym e n ts to re s iden ts of F i j i, t r an s f e rs to o ther Ex t e rn al A c coun t s, paymen ts in cash in F i j i, and pu rchases of fo r e ign exchange for t ravel purposes. Imports and Import Payments A ll impo r ts f r om Rhode s ia are p roh ib i ted. Impor ts of most goods are f ree u n d er open general l icense when o r i g i n a t i ng in coun tr ies other than Rhodes ia. However, impo rt p roh ib i t ions are imposed on a few commod i t ies f r om a ll sources, m a in ly for secur i ty, hea l th, or public policy reasons. Cer ta in commod i t ies can be imported on ly u n d er spec i f ic licenses, i n c l u d i ng passenger au tomo- b i le s, seed potatoes, flour, and tea; licenses for some of these i t ems are issued res tr ic t ive ly. Paymen ts for au tho r ized impor ts are perm i t ted upon a p p l i c a t i on and subm i s s ion of d o c um e n t a ry ev idence to au thor ized dealers who may allow paymen ts for goods wh ich have been impo r ted u n d er either a spec if ic impo rt license or an open general license. Authorized banks may a l low advance p a ym e n ts for a ll impo r ts provided the goods are impor ted in to Fiji w i th in 90 days of the d a te the p aym ent is made. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles o r ig in a t ing in any country (except Rhod e s i a) are perm i t ted either under a dele- gated au tho r i ty to banks or, where large amoun ts or nonde lega ted paymen ts are involved, upon application to the Cen t ral Mon e t a ry Au tho r i ty. Paymen ts may be made free ly for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of F i ji t rave l ing to other countries may obtain f rom a bank, w i thout re fe rence to the Central Monetary Author- ity, a fore ign currency travel allowance for private or business t ravel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a j o u r n e y. For an extended v is i t, a traveler may apply be fo re h is depa r tu re to the Central Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty for f u n ds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made f rom abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on the number of trips a res ident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take w i th him F$50 in Fiji currency and the equivalent or F$200 in other currencies, provided that these amoun ts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank and /or the Central Monetary Authority. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, cer ta in lumber, scrap metals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export perm it for commerc ial cons ignment of all goods w i th an f.o.b. v a lue exceeding F$ 1,000; this perm it is required for exchange control purposes. Expor ters are required to collect the proceeds of exports w i th in six mon ths of the date of expor ta t ion of the goods f rom Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made, and may not g rant credit to a nonres ident buyer in excess of six mon ths w i thout specific permission. All fore ign currenc ies must be offered for sale to an au tho r- ized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may br ing in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other former Sterling Area curren- cies, or non-Sterling Area currenc ies. Resident travelers are requ ired to sell the ir fore ign currency holdings to an au thor ized dealer w i th in one mon th of re tu rn. Capital The inf low of cap i tal in any fo rm requires specific permission of the Cen tral Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty. Foreign inves tment in Fiji no rma l ly is expected to be f inanced f rom a nonres ident source. Such fore ign inves tment may be given "approved status," wh ich gua ran tees the right to repa tr ia te d iv idends and cap i ta l. A ll capital ou tf lows are subject to prior approval. Capital t rans fe rs by resi- dents to f inance direct inves tmen ts require the specific permission of the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty and are permitted only where benef i ts will accrue to Fiji w i th in a reasonably short period. All au thor ized banks operat- ing in F i ji are required to ob ta in prior authorization f rom the Central Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty for transactions invo lv ing F$50,000 or more arising f rom ( 1) the con- version of foreign currency into Fiji currency whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emana t ing from another External Account ( in c lud ing Fiji currency accounts of overseas bank s ). Banks also require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before granting any loans to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident out- side Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$ 1,000—for any period and any purpose —to indi- v idual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and residents require permission f rom the Central 154 Monetary Au tho r i ty before they may borrow foreign currency w i th in Fiji or outside. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to non- residents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds f rom the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. Resi- dents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresi- dents equ iva lent to F$500 a donor a year; additional f u n ds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out the ir entire net assets on departure. W i th the prior approval of the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty, residents are pe rm i t ted to purchase foreign cu r rency up to a m a x im um of F$ 1,000 a person a year to acquire fore ign currency securities. The purchase of personal real proper ty outside Fiji is not permitted. Po r t fo l io inv e s tm ent in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Au thor i ty; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repa t r ia ted. Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonres iden ts. Gold Res iden ts may freely hold gold coin but not gold bu l l ion in Fiji. The export of gold coin, except numis- matic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports f rom all sources require a specific import license issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance; these are restricted to au thor ized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of customs du ty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt f rom customs du ty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 per cent. Gold jewe lry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less t h an F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by fore ign m anu f a c tu r e rs require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not requ ire licenses and are free of export du ty. All newly mined gold is sold in Aus tra l ia at free market prices. A commemorative gold coin of F$100 has been issued. It is legal tender but does not norma l ly circulate. Changes during 1978 January 1. The annual import quota on passenger au tomob i les was reduced f rom 1,250 to 1,100. At the same t ime, an annual import quota of 300 was imposed on certain other vehicles; import duties on these vehicles were raised. January 1. Commercial banks were given wider dele- gated au tho r i ty to sell foreign exchange for overseas remittances, inc lud ing interest payments on current accounts and offshore loans, and dividend payments. January 1. For an extended overseas visit, a traveler was allowed to apply, before his departure, to the Cen- tral Monetary Au thor i ty for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Finland is the Finnish Ma rkka. The external value of the ma rkka is defined as a currency index number (1974 = 100) reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the currencies most impor tant for Finland's fore ign trade. These currencies are def ined as the currencies of those countries which have accounted for not less than 1 per cent of the total of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the last three calendar years. The Bank of Finland pub- lishes the mon th ly average for the index a f ter the end of each mon th. The fluctuation limits are set at 2.25 per cent on each side of the theoretical arithmetic mean. The average va lue of the currency index was 118.5 in Decem- ber 1978. The upper fluctuation limit was 121.7 and the lower l im it was 116.4. The buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Finland for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, on December 29, 1978, were Fmk 3.917 and Fmk 3.935, respectively, per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buy- ing and selling rates for the clearing rub le are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on ma rket cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. The Bank of F in land quotes da i ly forward rates for the U.S. dollar and the clearing rub le at which author- ized banks may cover their contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transaction permitted by the exchange control regulations; otherwise, forward p rem iums and discounts reflect in terna t ional forward quotations. Authorized banks may deal among them- selves, w i th res ident customers, and w i th nonresident banks in U.S. do l lars and other convertible or ex terna l ly convertible currenc ies. The Bank of F in land concludes forward t ransac t ions for periods rang ing f rom 3 to 12 mon ths. Administration of Control The Bank of F in land operates the exchange control system, de lega t ing au tho r i ty to the au thor ized exchange dealers (m a in ly commercial b a n k s ). Import and export l icens ing is adm in is te red by an off ice subo rd ina te to the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indu s t ry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a L icens ing Board composed of government o f f ic ia ls, inc lud ing a represen ta t ive of the Bank of F in land. Prescription of Currency For prescription of cu r rency purposes, coun tr ies are divided in to two g roups: the b i la te ral coun t r ie s1 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the cur- rency of the agreement ( the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing Finnish ma rkka for the People's Republic of China, and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases) .2 Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish ma rkkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, w i th F inn ish currency received direct from a foreign bank or imported in to F in land, with amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, with amoun ts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited f ree ly and balances may be t rans fe r red abroad to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th which F in land has b i la teral paymen ts arrangements, and are designated according to the holder's country of residence. They may be held in Finnish ma rkkaa or the appropr ia te b i la teral agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts trans- ferred f rom Convertible Accoun ts and from Restricted Accoun ts re la ted to the same coun try. The accounts may also be credited w i th F inn ish currency received from a b a nk in the coun t ry indicated on the account, with amoun ts wh ich the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country ind ica ted on the account, w i th currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and w i th interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be t rans fe r red to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. The ass ignment of a Capital Account to ano ther non re s ident and the t ran s fer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effec ted (with some m inor excep t ion s ), only w i th the permission of the Bank of F in land. A mone tary in s t i tu t ion may credit a Capital Account w i th the purchase price of assets other than fo re ign secur i t ies bought f rom the holder by a resident, w i th f u n ds received as an inhe r i tance, and with redemp- 1 At the end of 1978 F i n l a nd had b i la te ral p a ym e n ts ag r e em en ts w i th Bu lg a r i a, People's R epub l ic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, G e rm an Demo- cratic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, Po land, Rom an i a, and U.S.S.R. - In the cases of Czechoslovakia and of Po l and, the accoun ts con t inue to be c en t r a l i z ed, b u t, since 1970, ba lances on the accounts have been f r e e ly t r a n s f e r a b le and conve r t ib le in to o ther currencies. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND tion payments and interest on matured bonds and deben- tures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a con- tract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value to be utilized in Finland, and interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and f u n ds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Bank of Finland generally grants permission for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad du r ing the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the multilateral countries (i.e., nearly all the countries with which Fin- land does not have bilateral payments agreements),3 provided that the goods are purchased from and origi- nate in those countries. Certain goods4 may be imported f rom the mu l t i la teral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 value quotas for specified com- modity groups. The total value of the global quota imports for 1978 was less than 1 per cent of total 1978 imports. Certain other goods requ ir ing individual licenses when imported f rom the multilateral area are set out in the discretionary licensing list. The only commodities still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction for the multilateral area are certain agr icu l tural commodities, fuels, and petroleum products; the specified consumer durable goods which are subject to surveillance licensing are licensed freely. M in imum import prices are imposed on some consumer goods. Import licenses are not requ ired for most commodities o r ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom the U.S.S.R., or origi- na t ing in and shipped f rom the five countries w i th which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to t rade have been concluded (Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Po l and ). Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports from the U.S.S.R. and these five countries have been reduced to the levels applicable to goods o r ig ina t ing in the multi- la teral area. In addition, many commodities originating in and shipped f rom the other b i la teral countries are f ree of license. Imports under license f rom the bilateral countries are adm i t ted up to quo tas provided for under 3 The exceptions are Repub l ic of Ch ina, No r th Korea, and Mongolia. 4 A g r i c u l t u r al commod i t ie s, pe t ro leum produc ts, and u nw r o u g ht gold and silver. 156 the relevant trade agreement. All imports of com- modities originating in countries classified in neither the multilateral area nor the bilateral area require indi- v idual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commer- cial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within 12 months after the arrival of goods in the country; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless specially authorized by the Bank of Finland; if the payment is made to the seller by using an import financing credit, the credit period may not exceed 6 months. Under a temporary "cash payment scheme," however, payment for specified imports must be made, or the markka equivalent of the purchase price must be deposited with the Bank of Finland, before the goods are released by the customs authorities. On December 31, 1978, the list of goods (mostly consumer goods) to which this scheme was applied covered about 18 per cent of imports. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions (re la t ing to transport and insur- an c e ), residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with nonresidents. Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect pay- ments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for amoun ts in excess of the s tandard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are gran ted free ly by the Bank of F in land. All contracts invo lv ing paymen ts to nonresi- den ts for which general permission has not been granted must be subm i t ted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For m inor paymen ts, authorized banks may provide foreign exchange equ iva lent to Fmk 1,000 a ca lendar mon th for each remitter. A F inn ish resident trave l ing abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equ iva lent to Fmk 3,000 a tr ip. Once abroad a trave ler may w i thdraw fo re ign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a F inn ish mone ta ry in s t i tu t ion, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and settle the t ransac t ion a f ter h is r e tu rn. Non res ident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in F inn i sh notes and coin and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution any amount in foreign notes and coin declared upon entry. Res ident travelers may t a ke out fo re ign or domes- tic cu r rency, or any comb ina t ion of these, up to Fmk 3,000. For all types of t rave l, bona fide app l ica- tions for add i t ion al amoun ts of fo re ign exchange are approved by the Bank of F in land. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. Export licenses are requ i red only for expo r ts of scrap me ta l. Exports of some commod i t ies in the ag r i cu l tu r al sector and raw t imbe r, as well as expor ts to coun t r ies not in the conve r t ib le area, requ i re an export con t rol dec la ra- tion, which is approved a u t om a t i c a l ly by the L icens ing Off ice except in a few spec i f ied cases. Sales of a rms are strictly con t ro l led. Expor ts to coun t r i es t h at are not in the conve r t ib le area and th at are ou t s ide the scope of agreements on the rec iprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of b i la te ral trade arrange- ments. Foreign exchange acqu i red th rough commod i ty exports need not be su r rende red to the B ank of F in land or to an au thor ized exchange dea le r. Expor ters are requ i red to repa t r ia te the ir fo re ign exchange proceeds w i th in eight days of collection, wh ich may then be he ld in a fo re ign cu r rency account w i th an au tho r ized bank in F i n l a nd or be converted in to dome s t ic cu r rency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts de r ived f r om cu r rent inv i s i- bles do not have to be su r rende red but must be repa t r ia ted w i th in eight days of co l lec t ion. The exchange may be held in a fo re ign cu r rency account in F in l and. Any unu t i l i z ed foreign b ankno t es and trave lers checks must be repa tr ia ted, but these are exempt f rom the sur- render r equ i r em ent up to Fmk 3,000 for each res ident holder. The import of F inn ish and fore ign means of payment is unres tr ic ted. Capital Most outward t ran s fe rs of non res ident cap i tal are subject to approval by the Bank of F in land. Inhe r i tances are t ran s fe r red au toma t ica l ly to the benef ic iar ies. Per- sons who du r ing the last ca lendar year have resided outside F in land and continue to do so may t rans fer abroad the ir assets in F in land in one l ump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of F in land, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, deben tures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the He ls inki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate FINLAND the proceeds of the sale in a conver t ib le currency. The a cqu i s i t ion of shares, bonds, and deben tures quoted on the He l s inki Stock Exchange w i th f u n ds f rom Capital Accoun ts is also permitted au toma t ica l ly if they are acqu i red by an au thor ized bank, but proceeds f rom the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad w i thout the permission of the Bank of F in land. Any other t ran sac t ions in securities, and the export of securi- t ies that invo lve non res ident interests, requ i re approval. If the secu r i t ies were acqu ired w i th conve r t ib le foreign exchange or w i th m a r k k aa f r om a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained free ly. The regu la t ions concern ing inward direct investment are as fo l lows: All incom ing cap i tal transac t ions must be approved by the Bank of F in land. The Bank usually g ran ts pe rm i s s ion, un less the inves tment is judged to be excep t iona l ly d e t r im en t al to the na t ional interest or to be of a pu re ly financial character. Repa tr ia t ion of au thor ized d irect inve s tmen ts is f ree f rom approval. Foreign inve s tmen ts that involve a par t ic ipa t ion of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise requ i re the approval of the Council of State. This approval is u s u a l ly gran ted. Direct fo re ign investment in the forest and m i n i ng indus tr ies and in certain tra- d i t i o n a l ly regu la ted ac t iv i t ies is not no rma l ly perm i t ted. On d em a nd of the Bank of F in land, residents must dec lare the ir fo re ign assets, inc lud ing proper ty owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real proper ty must be repa tr ia ted under the general ru le of repa t r ia t ion. Outward t ran s fe rs of capital by residents r equ i re i n d i v i d u al approva l; inves tment by residents in fore ign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. Au tho r ized banks, however, are given permission to pu rchase specified fo re ign and F inn ish securities issued abroad. For direct inves tment abroad, approval is gran ted on the me r i ts of each case. F inn ish em ig ran ts are genera l ly perm i t ted an exchange a l lowance of up to Fmk 75,000 a person, in addition to the basic tour ist travel allowance. There is an auto- ma t ic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 2,000 a calendar month for each donor for g if ts and contributions to nonres iden ts. Foreign cu r rency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the fo rm of short-term or med ium - te rm financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requ i res the specific approval of the Bank of F in land, which exercises surveillance over the terms and t im ing. Lend ing to nonresidents is no rma l ly restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is subject to a selective deposit requ iremen t, the terms of which are set ad hoc by the Bank of Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any fo rm in Finland. Imports of gold in any fo rm other than 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND jewe lry requ ire licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not norma l ly gran ted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and indus- trial users. The global quo ta list contains a quota for indus t r ial gold, for wh ich licenses are granted free ly. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Off ice is usually sufficient. Changes during 1978 January 9. A t rade ag reement was signed with Viet Nam. All paymen ts were to be made in free ly con- vertible currencies. February 9. The m in imum import price for rubber boots was increased. February 15. The requ i rement that an export control declaration be completed was removed for most items exported to mu l t i la teral countries, except for agricultural products. February 17. The ex ternal va lue of the ma rkka was depreciated by 8 per cent in terms of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The fluctuation limits of the Bank of Finland's exchange ra te index were set at 121.7 and 116.4 (1974 = 100). March 10. An automatic import licensing system on certain sensitive items was introduced for surveillance purposes. April 1. An agreement with Poland on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade entered into force. April 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Roman ia was amended; henceforth, settlements would be effec ted through the clearing U.S. dollar rather than through the clearing ruble. May 15. The Bank of Finland reduced the scope of the cash payment scheme for imports so that it would cover about one fou r th of commodity imports instead of about one th ird. September 25. A m in imum import price was imposed on metal watch straps. November 1. The Bank of Finland curtailed the cash payment scheme for imports so that it would cover about 18 per cent of commodity imports (see entry for May 15, above). November 6. A m in imum import price was imposed on printed cotton fabrics and terry towels. December 1. The automatic licensing system for imports of sensitive textile items was extended to Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of France is the Franc. Exchange rates, which are not ma in ta ined w i th in fixed marg ins, are determined on the basis of supply and demand in the exchange market.1 The mone ta ry authorities intervene in order to smooth out f luc tua t ions so as to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 the representative rates for the U.S. dollar and the off ic ia l ly quoted buy ing and selling rates were F 4.18, F 4.1740, and F 4.1860, respectively, per US$1. Official quo ta t ions are published da i ly for 16 other foreign currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories, to the New Hebrides f ranc, and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury th rough an Opera t ions Account,3 as fo l lows: ( 1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and F u t u na Islands, the currency used is the CFP f ranc, which has a fixed pa r i ty w i th the f r a nc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) In the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides, for wh ich France has assumed the obli- gations of the Articles of Ag reement of the In te rna t ional Mone ta ry Fund, pu rsuant to Article XXXI, Sec- t ion 2 ( g ), the currencies used a re the New Hebrides franc, which has a fixed parity with the f ranc of NHF 1 = F 0.061875, and the Au s t r a l i an dollar. The o f f ic ial exchange rate of the New Hebrides f r anc in terms of the Aus t ra l ian dollar is ad jus ted f rom t ime to t ime to take account of changes in the exchange rela- tionship between the French f r a nc and the A u s t r a l i an dollar. On December 29, 1978, the ra te was NHF 1 = $A 0.01287. (3) Fixed conversion ra tes in terms of the f r a nc apply to the currenc ies of the Operations Account coun t r ies .8 These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA f r a n c, wh ich c i rcu la tes in B e n i n, Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta; CF 1 = F 0.02 for the Comoros f r an c; and MF 1 = F 0.01 for the Ma li f ranc. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Opera t ions Account coun t r ies, are pe rm i t ted to deal spot or fo rw a rd in the exchange m a rk et in France. Au tho r ized b anks may also deal spot and f o rw a rd w i th the ir co r responden ts in fo re ign m a rk e ts in a ll cu r renc ie s. !W i th e f fect f r om Ma rch 13, 1979, France p a r t i c ip a t es in the exchange r a te m e ch an i sm of the Eu ropean M o n e t a ry Sys tem. 2 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C an ad i an do l la rs, Danish kro- n e r, deu t sche m a r k, D j i b o u ti f r an c s, I t a l i an l i r e, J apan e se y en, Ne the r- lands gu i ld e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, P o r t u g u e se escudos, pounds s t e r l i n g, Spanish pesetas, Swed ish k r o n o r, Swiss f r a n c s, and za' ires. (W i th e f f e ct f r om Ma rch 13, 1979, ra tes for the I r i sh pound are also q u o t e d .) :{ Ben in, Came roon, C en t r al A f r i c an Emp i r e, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Ma l i, N i g e r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of impo r ts and of certain trade transactions, but their fo rwa rd sales of foreign currency are free, whether or not there is an under ly ing transaction. For imports of some commodities, forward cover is available for 6 or 12 months, and for all others for 2 months. France fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Mar t in ique, Guiana, Reunion, and St. Pierre and M ique lon ), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Po lynes ia ). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries;3 pay- ments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes; all paymen ts between France and fore ign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for ex- change control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also con- sidered fore ign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are ma in ta ined over inward and ou twa rd direct inves tment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account coun tr ies or Monaco, and those over direct inves tment do not apply to member coun tr ies of the EEC. Privileged t rea tment in respect of trade t ransac t ions is accorded to the Operations Account countries and to Algeria, Gu inea, Democratic Kam- puchea, Madagascar, M au r i t an i a, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Condom in ium of the New Hebrides. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy4 is the coo rd ina t ing agency in the field of financial re la t ions w i th fo re ign coun tr ies. It is responsi- ble for exchange con trol and all ma t ters re la t ing to inw a rd and ou twa rd d irect inves tment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications. The Direc- to ra te of the Treasury also eva lua tes the ba lance of pay- 4 Since Ap r il 1978 the M in i s t ry of Economy and F inance has been d i v i d ed in to two M in i s t r i e s; the M in i s t ry of Economy comprises the D i r e c t o r a te of the T r e a s u r y, the D i rec to ra te of I n s u r a n c e, and the D i rec to ra te of Fore ign Econom ic Re la t ion s; the M in i s t ry of the Budg et in c lud es the D i r e c to r a t e -G en e r al of Cus toms and Ind i r e ct Taxes. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy has certain powers in respect of matters relat- ing to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all t rans fe rs has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export pro- cedures and controls, within the framework of commer- cial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE ); the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate m in is try or by the Direc- torate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The M in is try of Indus try has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th the Operations Account countries may be made in f rancs or the currency issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury.5 Settlements with all other coun tr ies may be made in any of the currencies of those coun t r ies or th rough nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with Algeria, Morocco, and Tuni- sia, however, u sua l ly take place in f ranc s. Impor ters and exporters are f ree to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonres ident account in f r an cs may be f ree ly opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, inc lud ing French nationals (other than o f f ic ia l s) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All ove rd ra f ts and advances on nonresident-held f r a nc accounts are sub ject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be free ly credited w i th ( 1) the f r a nc proceeds of the spot or fo rw a rd sale of fore ign currencies on the exchange ma rket by a nonres iden t; (2) the f r a nc proceeds of the sale of fo r- eign bankno tes to an au tho r ized bank by a nonres ident bank or t rave le r; ( 3) the f r anc equ iva lent of an au thor- ized bank's arbitrage in fo re ign currencies on the fore ign ma rke t; (4) French bankno tes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a nonresident, including interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortiza- tion f rom French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance; (8) liquida- tion proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments6 or real estate; and ( 9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary public, of real estate belonging to nonresidents. These accounts may be free ly debited for ( 1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresident of foreign banknotes or w i thd rawa ls in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in f rancs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their fore ign correspondents; (5) trans- fers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents;6 (7) pur- chases of real estate from residents, through the inter- mediation of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance with the relevant regulations by residents; and (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not transfer- able, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary; balances up to F 50,000 that existed on August 9, 1973 have been released. The unrem i t- tab le f u n ds of em igran ts of French nationality must be re ta ined in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) until they become nonresidents (i.e., un t il they have stayed in a fore ign country for two yea r s ); emigrants of fore ign n a t ion a l i ty become nonresidents immediately and, there- fo re, may take out all of the ir assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom countries that are accorded privileged trea tment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted f ree of quantitative restrictions and individual licenses. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import l ibera l iza t ion require ind iv idual licenses. Some impor ts f rom EEC countries and some other impor ts f rom non-EEC countries are subject to m i n im um prices; these requ i re an adm in is tra t ive visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Cer- ta in imports require certificates of origin. 3 Compr is ing the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Opera t ions Account coun tr ies and the Overseas In s t i tu te of Issue ( f or New Caledonia, French Po lynes ia, M ayo t t e, and Wa l l is and F u t u na I s l a n d s ). 0 Sub ject to compliance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of February 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For import control purposes, coun tr ies other than those that are accorded privileged t rea tment are d iv ided in to four groups according to the extent of impo rt l ibe ra l iza t ion: ( 1) the fo rmer OEEC coun t r ies, the ir dependent terr i tor ies and certain fo rmer dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Ethiopia, Fiji, F in land, Liberia, Sudan, the Un i ted States, Western Samoa and Yugoslavia; (2) 47 specified countries;7 (3) the Eastern European countries (A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Po land, Roman ia, and the U .S .S .R . ), the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, No r th Korea, and Mon- golia; and (4) the Ge rman Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import l ibe ra l iza t ion a r rangemen ts app l i- cable to one coun t ry may be impor ted f ree ly f rom another country, provided that the country of origin and the coun t ry of sh ipment both bene f it f rom the same degree of l ibe ra l iza t ion. Impor ts of practically all indu s t r ial products f r om coun tr ies in group ( 1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agri- cu l tu ral products; there is relatively little d i f fe rence between the lists of goods which may be impor ted f ree ly f rom d i f f e r ent coun tr ies in this group, these d i f fe rences re la t ing ma in ly to Hong Kong and Macao. Impor ts of certain indu s t r ial produc ts f r om coun tr ies in g roup (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional indus tr ial products f rom group ( 3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated annua l ly (petroleum and petroleum p roduc ts) or sem iannua l ly and apply to all countries (o ther than those that have bilaterally nego- t ia ted quo tas or receive privileged t r e a tm e n t ). Imports f rom all countries of certain agricultural items and cer ta in raw ma ter ia ls are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Impo r ts f rom non-EEC countries of most produc ts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to var iab le import levies that have replaced all prev ious barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports f rom non-ECC coun- tries of most other ag r icu l tu ral and livestock products. Liberalized impo r ts are not subject to trade controls, but do requ ire a customs document that constitutes the customs dec lara t ion. However, as an exchange con trol measure, the dom ic i l ia t ion ( reg is t ra t ion) of the import transac t ion at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an adm in is tra t ive visa issued by the Central Customs Adm in is t ra t ion or by the appropriate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European 7 A fgh an i s t an, A rg en t in a, Au s t ra l ia, B h u t a n, Bolivia, Brazil, B u rm a, Chile, Repub l ic of Ch ina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuador, Egyp t, El Salvador, Gua tema la, H a i t i, Hondu ras, Ind ia, Indonesia, I ran, I r aq, Israel, J ap an, Jo rdan, Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Libyan A r ab J am a h i r i y a, Mexico, Nepa l, New Zea land, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, P a r a g u a y, P e ru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South A f r i c a, Sri Lanka, Sy r ian A rab Repub l ic, Tha i land, U r u g u a y, Venezuela, Yemen A rab Repub l ic, and People's Democra t ic Republic of Yemen. FRANCE Coal and Steel Commun i ty require such adm in is tra t ive v isas wh en o r ig in a t ing in non-ECSC countries. Other impor ts gene ra l ly requ ire ind iv idu al import licenses. These are gran ted up to quotas determined on an i n d i v i d u al commod i ty basis or for a group of com- mod i t ies and are applicable to specified countries or a reas in accordance w i th trade agreements or an impo rt p lan d rawn up for a de f in i te period. P aym en ts for impor ts f rom fo re ign coun tr ies must be made by cred it to a Foreign Account in Francs or w i th fo re ign cu r rency purchased in the French exchange m a r k e t. Impo rt t ransac t ions re la t ing to fore ign coun- tr ies and va lued at F 50,000 or more must be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized b ank, to wh ich the necessary import documen ts must be presented and through which all p aym en ts re la ted to the import mu st be made. The am o u n ts th at may be t ran s fe r red th rough postal chan- nels are not subject to limitation, but in practice the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on does not make impo rt p a ym e n ts va lued at over F 50,000, as it does not u n d e r t a ke dom ic i l ia t ion. Au tho r ized banks may w i thout special au tho r i z a t ion a l low advance paymen ts to be made t h at are p rov ided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance paymen ts require prior approval by the Customs Adm in i s t r a t ion. For all imports, impo r t- ers may purchase spot foreign currency eight working days be fo re u t i l iza t ion; u t i l iza t ion cannot t ake place be fo re the payment fa l ls due. There is no res tr ic t ion on the use of suppliers' credit. Two mon ths' f o rw a rd cover for impo rt paymen ts can be ob ta ined for any commod- ity; for the import of specified raw materials and speci- fied food s tu f fs (un roas ted coffee, corn, rice, etc .) fo r- ward cover for six mon ths or one year is ava i lab le. The foreign currency may be purchased forward at the time of dom ic i l ia t ion, but the m a t u r i ty of the f o rw a rd exchange contract must not be later th an the d a te on wh ich the comme rc ial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for cu r rent invisibles to f o r e i gn coun t r i es are controlled but are not restricted as to am o u n t. If j u s t i f y i ng documents are presented and certain exchange con trol requ i remen ts are met, authorized b a n ks are per- mitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limitation; for cer ta in other categories of current invisibles, estab- lished l im i ts have been set. Applications for all other paymen ts for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established l im i ts are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applications are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may free ly and at any time make remit- tances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person, provided that the t ran s fe rs do not constitute installments of paymen ts exceeding F 1,500, are not for purposes 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE subject to special allocation, and do not serve as a means of accumu la t ing f u n ds abroad. Paymen ts that may be authorized w i thout l im i ta t ion by authorized banks inc lude those related to approved trade t ransac t ions; income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties; b ank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doc- tors, lawyers, etc.; a l imony in accordance w i th court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i t h in th ree mon ths f rom the da te of paymen t. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- ta in t ransac t ions between persons or firms in France and abroad are sub ject to res t r ic t ion; these inc lude cer- ta in t ran sac t ions re la t ing to insu rance, re insurance, and road and river t ranspo r t. The basic exchange allocation for tour ist travel to fore ign coun t r ies by res iden ts (d e f in ed for this purpose as inc lud ing residents of Operations Account countries) is the equ iva lent of F 5,000 a person a tr ip, which may be taken up for any numb er of tr ips a year. The basic allocation for business t ravel is the same plus the equ iva lent of F 500 a person a day. App l ica t ions for exchange in excess of the basic a l lowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no cap i tal ou t f low is invo lved. Any unu t i l ized foreign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of F 1,000 must be surrendered upon re tu rn to France. Applica- tions for t ravel exchange cannot be subm i t ted earlier than one mon th before depa r tu re. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unres tr ic ted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds f rom banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in f ranc s, as may hotel costs and other t ranspo r ta t ion expenses. Resident travelers to fo re ign coun t r ies may take out F 5,000 in French bankno tes. These bankno tes may be used abroad, and any am o u nt taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French bank- notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange ma rket any French bankno tes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that ma rket of fore ign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any rema in ing French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may free ly take out the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in means of paymen ts acquired in the exchange ma rket against a tourist travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in foreign bank- notes unless these were declared upon en try and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m inus any amoun ts exchanged for f rancs plus any 162 reconversion of f rancs into fore ign currencies. How- ever, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in add i t ion, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, they may take out any amount in fo re ign bankno tes or fore ign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by con- version of foreign exchange in the French exchange marke t, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require ind iv idual licenses, but if the total va lue does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' i t em s ), these exports may be permitted w i thout any fo rma l i ty, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to fore ign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repa t r ia t ion8 and, where appropriate, the su r render by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f rom exports to fore ign countries is required, normally w i th in one mon th of the date on which the payment falls due but in any case within eight working days of receipt by a French bank. Authorized banks may freely extend fore ign currency advances to exporters; such advances and the ir repayment may be settled in the exchange marke t, as may the proceeds f rom the discounting of fore ign currency d ra f ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, therefore, the due date of the export receipts) may not be more than 180 days a f ter arr ival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization, or, when a guarantee by the Compagnie Fran£aise d'Assurance pour le Com- merce Exterieur (COFACE) has been obtained. Export proceeds must not be received in French or fore ign bankno tes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions related to foreign coun- tries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the Director-General of Cus- toms and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms f rom domiciliation requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not norma l ly residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where 8 Repa tr ia t ion may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date and in any case within eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coin (except gold co in) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign cur- rency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 w i th in a month of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. W i th the exception of purchases of French and foreign securi- ties abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital gene ra l ly are restricted; capital receipts f rom fo re ign countries are permitted freely, provided th at the fore ign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over bo r row ing abroad and over inwa rd direct invest- m e n t ). Capital assets abroad of residents are not sub- ject to repa tr ia t ion. Residents are freely pe rm i t ted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a f am i ly un i t. The t r an s f er abroad of nonres iden t-owned fund s, inc lud ing the sales proceeds of cap i tal assets, is not restricted. French and fore ign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited w i th an au thor ized bank in a fo re ign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French and fore ign securities held under a fo re ign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be t r an s f e r r ed abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a non res ident mu st be deposited w i th an au tho r ized b a n k; French secur i t ies held in France by non res iden ts need not be deposited but cannot be dea lt w i th or expor ted unless they have been depos i ted. Foreign, securities held in France by residents must be deposited w i th a qu a l i f i ed bank or broker. Res iden ts may ho ld French and fore ign secu r i t ies abroad u n d er the con t rol of a French au thor ized bank or broker. The export for the account of r e s i d e n ts of French secu r i t ies he ld in France is p roh ib i ted, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to comp l iance w i th the special regu la t ions conce rn ing inw a rd and o u tw a rd direct inve s tment th at are summa r ized below, residents may f r e e ly pu rchase French and fo re ign secu r i t ies on stock exchanges abroad, th rough au thor ized bank s, except, however, equities w i th FRANCE a ma tu r i ty of less than five years issued by foreign gov- ernments.9 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange market within two months of receipt, unless used w i th in that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before Novem- ber 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the pro- ceeds through the exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the t ransac t ions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affec ted by exchange control requirements. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to the Operations Account countries. Furthermore, the trans- action controls over direct inves tment are not applicable to member countries of the EEC, where direct invest- ment transac t ions are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct inves tmen ts abroad, including loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, requ ire prior declaration to the Minister of Economy; as regards member countries of the EEC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regu la t ions ra ther than under the special trans- action controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are de f ined as inves tmen ts lead ing to control of a company or en terpr ise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other firm may be considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in eva lua t ing the degree of control, takes in to account any special rela- tionships resu l t ing f rom stock options, patents and licenses, commerc ial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a pa rent company to its subs id ia ry are sub ject to the same regu la t ions as direct inves tmen ts. Except in respect of EEC coun t r ies, the M in i s ter may request the postpone- ment of the pro jec ts subm i t ted to him w i th in two months f r om receipt of the dec la ra t ion. If the am o u nt invo lved is more th an F 1 m i l l ion, documen ta ry evidence must be s u bm i t t ed to the D i rec to ra te of the Treasury before the "The ex i s t ing gene ral permissions do not cover the sale in France by non r e s id en t s, or the pu rcha se ab road by res iden ts, of secu r i t ies t h at are not quo ted on a recogn ized stock exchange. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister within 20 days after it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized earlier in this paragraph, the mak ing or liquidation of direct invest- ments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declara- tion or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 3 million a year for each benef ic iary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mu tual funds, or com- panies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury functions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Also, certain inward direct investment up to F 3 million a transaction is exempt f rom prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the French Gove rnment and (2) shares similar to securities that already are off ic ia l ly quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrow ing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or pr iva te persons, whose no rmal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The following types of borrow- ing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (4) bor- rowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or cap i ta l ), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized b ank s ); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each draw ing against the loan is separated by at least one year f rom the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct inves tment and borrow ing is delegated to the Bank of France in so far as they relate to French firms that are ma in ly engaged in real estate business. Lend ing abroad is sub ject only to exchange con trol au tho r iza t ion by the Bank of France, w i th in the f r am e- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the 164 imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the g ran t ing of guarantees and va ry ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is prohibited, with minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free from limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of gold into or f rom the terr i tory of continental France require prior authori- zation by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for mone tary gold but usually is given for indus- trial gold. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing only a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other j ew e l ry) or num isma t ic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under export licenses granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, are sub ject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangemen ts and to licensing by the Bank of France. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of mone ta ry gold (bars and coin) are not subject to value- added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs d u ty and value-added tax. Domestic transac- tions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1978 At var ious times du r ing the year imports of a number of products ( inc lud ing textiles and electronic equip- m e n t) f r om pa r t icu lar countries were excluded f rom the common EEC treatment. Imports of sheep and lamb f rom the Un i ted Kingdom were prohibited at various times. Imports of certain other products were prohibited for health reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE March 7. The border tax (through the green f r a n c) on ag r icu l tu ral products from the EEC was reduced f rom 23 per cent to 21.5 per cent. March 13. Imports of bees, honey, and bee-keeping equipment were prohibited. July 1. Regulations regarding company takeovers were tightened. July 17. Anti-dumping provisions under EEC Regula- tion No. 1355/78 on ferrochrome o r ig ina t ing in South A f r ica and Sweden were extended by Regulation No. 1682 /78 to ferrochrome manu fac tu red in Sweden. August 30. Decree 78-903 established a parafiscal tax on lubricating oils and petroleum until December 31, 1978. October 12. Measures were introduced to improve the capital s truc ture of banks. New lend ing restrictions were also in troduced. October 24. Foreign banks were permitted to become aff i l ia tes of the Paris Commod i ty Bourse. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f r a n c, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transac- tions in French f r an cs between the Banque des Etats de TA f r ique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain fo re ign currenc ies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed ra te for the French f r anc and the ra te for the currency con- cerned in the Paris exchange marke t, and include a commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not app ly to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Terr i tor ies) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivo ry Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made f ree ly. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the M in is try of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has dele- gated his approval au tho r i ty for current payments to the authorized banks and that w i th respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange trans- actions re la t ing to foreign coun tr ies must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the M in is try of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 1 The CFA f r a nc c i rcu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afr ique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Emp ire, Chad, and the Congo. 166 The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's fore ign correspondent. Otherwise, the c red i t ing to nonresident accounts of BEAC bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any o ther in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom member countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of all forma l i t ies. All imports f rom countries outside the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (whe re the va lue is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to impor t. All imports, of any origin, are subject to au thor iza t ion. For perishables and spare parts a provisional au thor iza t ion is given to avoid administrative delays. Imports f rom countries outside the UDEAC that are s im i lar to, and compete with, domestic produc ts2 are subject to licensing, bu t, in practice, licenses are gran ted liberally. Some impor ts are prohibited for secur i ty and health reasons. All import transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions to import entitle impor ters to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are subm i t ted to the authorized bank. Payments from Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are subm i t ted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any fore ign exchange remaining after re tu rn to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation 2 Such as cement, whea t, and batteries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French banknotes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such banknotes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers through the bank ing or postal system may be effected w i thout limit. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered. Export proceeds norma l ly must be received w i th in 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at the ir destina- t ion. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a fore ign currency, w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transac t ions w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom resi- den ts of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered w i th in a mon th of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies are f ree of exchange con tro l; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries requ i re the approval of the Direc- tora te of Foreign F inanc ial R e l a t i o ns and are res tr ic ted, but capital receipts f rom such coun tr ies are perm i t ted free ly. A ll fo re ign securities, fo re ign cu r rency, and titles embody ing c la ims on foreign coun t r ies or nonres iden ts that are held in Gabon by res iden ts or nonres iden ts must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Gabon. GABON Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the M in is try of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as con- s t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom re inves tment of und is tr ibu ted profits; within two mon ths from receipt of the declaration the Ministry may request the postponement of the project. The full or pa r t ial l iqu id a t ion of direct inves tmen ts in Gabon must also be declared to the M in is try unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. Exempt f rom author- iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee f rom the Gabonese Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requ ires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Economy and F inance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inve s tment abroad for which prior approval has been ob ta ined, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans d irec t ly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, :! I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh f o r e i gn companies that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in Gabon and those made by b r an ch es or sub s id i a r i es abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 I n c l u d i ng those m ade by compan ies in Gabon that are directly or i n d i r e c t ly und er f o r e i gn control and those made by branches or sub- s id ia r ies in Gabon of f o r e i gn companies. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 mil- lion or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are f ree of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or fore ign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion f rom direct taxes on specified income. A m in imum of 10 per cent state participation is required for any en terpr ise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of p re fe ren t ial trea tmen t. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of govern- ment contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that fore ign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 March 1. Banks were prohibited by the BEAC from holding assets abroad in excess of minimal working bal- ance. Banks currently holding such assets were required to repatriate them, with the possibility of depositing them w i th the BEAC at an interest rate of 6.5 per cent. October 12. Decree No. 01/211 was published con- cerning financial relations with foreign countries. October 21. Circular No. 02676 established regula- tions for the domiciliation of imports and exports. October 25. Ordinance No. 68 /78 /PM laid down sanctions that would be enforced for violations of exchange regulations. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of The Gamb ia is the Gamb ian Dalasi, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the intervention currency, at D 4 = £ stg. 1. The Central Bank of The Gamb ia deals in pounds sterling at the fixed rate of D 4 = <£ stg. 1, subject to a commission of 0.0625 per cent buy ing and 0.5 per cent selling. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transac t ions in s ter l ing at rates w i th in 1 per cent of the Cen tral Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is de term ined by the M in is- try of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administra- tion of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may au tho r ize sales of foreign currencies for impo r ts covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amoun ts, for travel expenses and sund ry paymen ts abroad. All other sales of foreign currencies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. Current payments to or f rom the Central Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are usually made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments from resi- dents of other countries, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other currencies. They may be debited for any pay- ments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of other currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to ma in ta in Blocked Accounts under the d irec t ion of the Central Bank. imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited f rom all sources, predominantly for social or health reasons or on g rounds of pub l ic policy. The impo rt f rom any coun t ry of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such impor ts and the ir f a ir domestic pricing. The Gambia Produce Ma rke t ing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are f ree ly permitted under an open general license if imported from the following countries: ( 1) a ll countries w i th in the fo rmer Sterling Area; (2) Aus t r ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Ne the r lands, No rw ay, Po r tuga l, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together w i th the overseas territories of these countries; and (3) Argen t ina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports are subject to specific licensing if imported f rom other countries. Settlement for imports from other countries may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of impor ta t ion for any commodity that is cov- ered by a valid specific import license. For imports th at do not requ ire specific licensing, payment authori- zation is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance pay- ments for imports, whether or not these are covered by specific licenses, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with normal commercial practice. Pay- ments for imports may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any currency other than Rhodesian currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue. Imports made by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles in fo re ign currencies require permission f rom the Central Bank, with the exception that au thor ized dealers have been delegated powers to au thor ize travel expenses and sund ry paymen ts. Per- mission is given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the jou rn ey, au thor ized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel abroad. For business, professional, or official pur- poses, au thor ized dealers may provide residents w i th exchange fac i l i t ies up to D 1,750 for any one jou rney at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission f rom the Central Bank but all such applications are approved, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken out in foreign currency notes and coin. Irrespective of destina- tion, a traveler leaving The Gamb ia may take out D 75 in Gambian and /or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requirements, the export of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all goods to Bulgaria, the People's Repub- lic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also requires a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is free ly permitted under an open general license. The Gambia Produce Ma rke t ing Board is the sole exporter of ground- nut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all deriva- tives of cotton. Payments for exports must be received within six months f rom the date of export in a currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis, or in sterling from an External Accoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but outward transfers are subject to control. At the time of mak ing investments in The Gambia, nonresident investors may apply for a clearance f rom the Central Bank to fac i l i ta te subsequent repatriation of capital; the remittance of profits is allowed freely after pro- vision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gambia. All other applica- tions to transfer capital abroad are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capi- tal to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coin minted in the United Kingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coin and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Federal Republic of G e rm any is the Deutsche Mark. Ge rmany1 participates with Bel- g ium, Denma rk, Luxembourg, and the Ne the r lands in the European common margins arrangement ( the sn ak e ), which is a mu l t icu r rency intervention system.2 In accordance with this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants are maintained within margins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates applied in the arrangement. The arrangement implies that the Deutsche Bundes- bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 these rates were Specified In te rven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 100 Danish kroner 100 Ne the r lands guilders Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 6.221 34.645 90.225 6.508 36.235 94.375 The par t ic ipan ts in the snake are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper f u n c t i o n i ng of the a r rangemen t, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates, the principal in terven t ion currenc ies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 16 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange mar- ket of F r ank fu rt am Main.* On December 29, 1978 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.8280 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Ge rmany fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The adm in is tra t ion of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal M in i s t ry of Economics, the Federal M in i s t ry of Finance, the Federal M in i s t ry of T ranspo r ta t ion, the Federal Office for Trade and Indu s t ry, the Federal 1 The t e rm "Germany" is used in th is s u r v ey as an a b b r e v i a t i on for the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, in c lud ing Ber l in (W e s t ). -W i th effect f r om Ma rch 13, 1979 G e rm a ny p a r t i c i p a t es in exchange ra te mechan ism of the Eu ropean M o n e t a ry Sys tem. 5 A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian and Luxembou rg f r an c s, Canad ian do l lars, Dan i sh k r o n e r, F inn i sh m a r k k a a, F r en ch f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k r o n o r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. (W i th e f fect f r om M a r ch 13, 1979 ra tes for the Irish pound are also quoted .) the M in i s t ry for Food, Agr icu l ture, and Forestry, the Fed- eral Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Ag r i cu l tu r al Marke t ing Organization, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenw i r tscha f tsgese tz) of 1961 has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents.4 The Deutsche Bundesbank is in charge of the implementa- t ion of the capital controls. The Bundesbank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money market paper and fixed-interest securities with a remaining m a tu r i ty of less than four years or that are eligible for de l ivery under en pension transac t ions w i th in the same m a t u r i t y. All banks in Ge rmany are permitted to carry out fo re ign exchange transac t ions. A vo lun ta ry coordi- na t ing body w i th in the bank ing system, the Central Capital Ma rket Committee, formu la tes recommenda- tions w i th regard to the t im ing and the terms of domestic and fo re ign bond issues, except issues by those institu- tions that have recourse to the capital market on a p e rm a n e nt basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 8,606 statistical positions. Their t rea tment is as follows: some 7,296 items may be imported free of license f rom any country except Rhodesia. Commodities corresponding to some 8,300 positions may be imported free of license from coun t r ies in Coun t ry List A /B .5 Certain petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irrespective of or ig in. Impo r ts of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are perm i t ted w i th in the f ramewo rk of an annual global quo ta. The Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EEC covers 1,361 statistical items; most of these are subject to va r iab le import levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is s t i ll required by EEC regulations. De facto l ibera l iza t ion is applicable to certain com- modities (315 statistical items) when originating in and purchased from A lban ia, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Mongo l ia, Po land, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Under these a r rangemen t s, impo rt licenses are issued au tom a t i c a l ly upon app l ica t ion, provided that domestic 4 The concep ts of res ident and nonres ident are defined in Ar t ic le 4, Section 1, and A r t ic le 4a of the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Law. •" •Coun t r ies in List A /B are those of the f o rm er OEEC area and F in l and and all o ther c o u n t r i es except those in List C. Coun t r ies in List C are A lban ia, member coun t r i es of the Council for Mu tu al Econom ic Assistance ( CM E A ), People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, and N o r th Korea. Rhodes ia is not i n c l u d ed in any of the th r ee c o u n t ry l is ts for impo r ts. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA6 procedure). Imports of certain commodities among those not subject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Industry. These import declara- tions are partly prescribed by the EEC. For imports still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (w i th certain excep- tions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanen t ly open (AMLA6 procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity f u t u r es may be dealt in free ly. Most t rans it trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles A ll payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly w i th- out ind iv idual license, except to Rhodesia. Ge rman and fore ign notes and coin and o ther means of payment may be exported freely. The fo l low ing t ransac t ions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonres iden ts are subject to restriction: the cha r te r ing of foreign ships f rom resi- dents of specified coun tr ies and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of fore ign boats in certain in land wa terway t ra f f ic; t ran sac t ions w i th specified coun- tries (which do not g rant reciprocal t r e a tm en t) for hu ll and ma r ine l iab i l i ty in su rance and av ia t ion insu rance, except passenger accident insurance; and the production of motion pictures in association w i th nonresidents.7 Exports and Export Proceeds Only certain commodities may be exported to Rho- desia. W i th few exceptions, other export t ransac t ions may be carried out f ree ly. An export notification is required for all goods, for statistical purposes. Certain exports (mos t ly strategic goods) are subject to indi- vidual licensing. A similar system exists for agricultural commodities, but generally for statistical reasons only. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- den ts do not requ i re licenses. However, licenses are (i Aussch re ibungen m it l a u f e n d er An t r ag s t e l lung. 7 Res tr ic t ions are applied on ly to the acqu is i t ion f r om non res iden ts of r igh ts to films t h at are to be shown in the o r ig inal Ge rman - speak ing vers ion or in a Ge rman -synch ron ized vers ion, the acqu is i t ion of r igh ts to f i lms of any kind o r ig ina t ing in CMEA coun t r i e s, and the accep tance of film services f rom CMEA coun t r ie s. 172 required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to resi- dents of List C countries (see footnote 5) of construc- t ional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufac- tu re, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. Ge rman and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely w i thout a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and in te rna t ional bond issues on the German capital market do not requ i re official approval, although a system of v o l u n t a ry coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. In principle, domestic and foreign securities of all types may be impor ted or exported free ly. Only a few types of capital inflows rema in restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is required for sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities of German issuers w i th less than four years rema in ing to ma tu r i ty, as well as for en pension transactions w i th nonresidents involv- ing fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in less than f o ur years. At present, such approval is not being given. Non- residents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Ge rmany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not requ ire approval. Interest payable to nonres ident holders of fixed-interest securities of Ge rman issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax" ). There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresi- dents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requirements on the level of the ir foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1978 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, i.e., 13.95 per cent, 9.8 per cent, and 6.2 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' fore ign currency borrowings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or fo re ign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F r ank fu r t. Imports require a license ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution f r om the Federal Office for Trade and I n d u s t ry wh en gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodes ia. W i th these exceptions, imports and exports by residents and nonres iden ts of gold in any fo rm are un res t r ic ted and f ree of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unwo rked gold and gold alloys are f ree of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 12 per cent. Impor ts of mone ta ry gold by the Bundesbank and impor ts of gold coin that are recognized by the M in i s t ry of F inance as h av ing legal tender s ta tus ( i n c l u d i ng sovereigns, K r u g e r r a n d, and 10-ruble co ins) a re exempt f r om th is tax and f r om cus toms du ty; impor ts of o ther gold coin are sub ject to va lue -added tax at a ra te of 12 per cent or, whe re the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold v a lu e, at a rate of 6 per cen t. Domestic purchases of gold (a l loys and coin that are not recognized as legal tende r) are subject to value-added tax at the same ra te as impor ts. Commercial impor ts and exports of articles con t a in ing gold are sub ject to the gene ral fo re ign t rade regu la t ions and in p rac t ica l ly a ll cases are l ibe ra l ized. Changes Curing 1978 January 1. The m in imum reserve requ iremen ts on the level of bank s' fo re ign l iab i l i t ies we re ra ised f rom 12.75 per cent to 20 per cent for sight deposits, f rom 8.95 per cent to 15 per cent for time deposits, and f rom 5.65 per cent to 10 per cent for sav ings deposits. S imu l taneou s ly, an add i t ion al m a rg in al reserve r equ i r em ent of 80 per cent was imposed for the increase in banks' fore ign l iab i l i t ies over the ir average level d u r i ng the period September 16 to December 15, 1977. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY January 7. It was a n n o u n c ed t h at the Bund e sb ank wou ld no longer approve the a c q u i s i t i on by non res iden ts of dome s t ic secur i t ies w i th a r em a i n i ng m a t u r i ty of more t h an two and up to f o ur years. June 1. The m i n im um reserve requ i remen ts on the grow th of l iab i l i t ies to non res iden ts, in t roduced on J a n u a ry 1, 1978, were abolished, and the reserve requ iremen ts on liabilities to nonres iden ts were brought in l ine w i th those on l iab i l i t ies to r e s id en ts and then both were lowered by 7 per cent. September 1. The m a n a g em e n ts of the five G e rm an fo r e ign exchange m a rk e ts in t roduced sub s t an t i al reduc- tions in the o f f ic ial m a x im um spread for 7 of the 16 o f f i c i a l ly quo ted currencies, i.e., C an ad i an do l la r s, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l ire, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and U.S. dollars. October 16. There was a rea l ignment of cu r renc ies w i t h in the Eu ropean common m a rg ins a r r ang em en t, invo lv ing an appreciation of the deu tsche ma rk by 4 per cent vis-a-vis the Dan ish k r o ne and the No r- weg ian k rone and of 2 per cent vis-a-vis the Be lg ian f r a n c, the Luxembou rg f r a n c, and the N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r. November 1. The m i n im um reserve ratios on b a n ks domestic and fo r e ign l iab i l i t ies were raised by 9 per cent to n e u t r a l i ze p a rt of the excess b ank l i q u i d i ty r e s u l t i ng f r om the Bundesbank 's heavy in te rven t ion in the fo re ign ex ch ange ma rke t. December 11. Fo l low ing No rway 's decision to w i t h- d raw f rom the European common marg ins a r r a n g em e n t, it was announ c ed that w i th e f fect f r om December 12, 1978, G e rm a ny would no longer m a i n t a in m a r g i ns v is-a-v is the No rweg ian krone. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ghana is the Ghana ian Cedi. E f f e c- t ive June 19, 1978, Ghana adopted a flexible exchange system, in which the exchange r a te for the Ghana ian cedi against the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, is adjusted to reflect the unde r ly ing economic, financial, and balance of paymen ts s i tua t ion. On December 29, 1978 the official buy ing and selling ra te for the U.S. dollar was 0 2.75 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any fo re ign cu r rency, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements f rom the Bank of Ghana on a day-to- day basis. Different exchange rates for the cedi arise f rom the application of an export bonus scheme (10 per cent for all exports except cocoa) and a 30 per cent surcharge on exchange allocations for fo r e ign t rave l, as well as f rom manda tory cash marg in deposits against import letters of credit. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Min- istry of Trade and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that M in is try, to prohibit, regu la te, or license all impor ts and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for ind iv idual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate m in is try or gov- ernment agency for endorsement. Applications are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the M in is try of Trade and Tourism. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on imports, supervised by the Import License Allocation Commis- sion on which the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the armed forces, and the Chamber of Commerce are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Depar tment of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through author- ized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and res iden ts of other countries are made in pe rm i t ted currencies. 1 Au s t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, CFA f rancs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian na i ra, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 174 However, se t t lemen ts related to t ransac t ions covered by b i la teral paymen ts agreements are made through clear- ing accounts ma in ta ined by the Bank of Ghana and /or the cen t ral or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Fu r the rmo re, proceeds f rom exports to countries with wh ich Ghana does not have paymen ts agreements must be received in the currency of the impor t ing country (if that cu r rency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Gh an a) or in deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Cu r rent paymen ts to or f rom the Cen- tral Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West A f r i c an Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their s taffs. This fac i l i ty is also available to inter- na t ional institutions and fo re ign registered companies opera t ing in Ghana. These accounts in cedis held by nonresidents with authorized banks in Ghana are desig- na ted Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments, with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any convertible cur- rency, other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of ex ternal cur- rencies, other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of b i la teral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement coun- tries, and with proceeds f rom sales of external cur- rencies, other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, in c lud ing the purchase of approved securities. - Gh ana m a in t a ins operative b i la te ral p aym en ts agreemen ts with the People's Republic of Ch ina and Roman ia. Certain transac t ions with Yugos lav ia are settled over special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports from Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rho- desia, and South A f r ica are not permitted. Imports of some goods, inc lud ing v i r tua l ly all textiles and textile products, chocolate, and chilled or frozen fish, are pro- hibited. Imports of cer ta in goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxu ry commodities, and certain goods deemed h a rm ful to health or pub l ic order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports. Applications for the impor ta t ion of items on the restricted list are normally not approved. Certain basic items, such as rice and sugar, which appear on the restricted list, may be imported only by the Logis- tics Committee through the Ghana National Procure- ment Agency. There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely f rom any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domestic pets, headloads of food s tu f fs f rom neighboring coun t r ies, fish caught by Ghana ian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other i tems requ ire a specific import license. There is a list of com- mercial imports eligible for specific licenses wh ich are issued for i tems th at are considered essential w i th in the f ramewo rk of an a n n u al impo rt p rog ram. Ce r ta in impo r ts are channeled th rough a bu lk pu r ch a s ing agen t, the Ghana Na t ional P rocu rement Agency, or for p u b l ic sector impor ts, the Ghana Supply Comm iss ion. Except for aid impo r ts, impo rt licenses do not specify the coun t ry f rom wh ich the commod i ty has to be impor ted, but they do spec ify whe ther p aym ent is to be made in conve r t ib le or inconve r t ib le c u r r e n c y. Licenses for payment in in conv e r t ib le cu r renc ies may be used for impo r ts f r om any p aym en ts ag reement coun t ry. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect th at in su rance must be covered in Gh an a. Exchange for payment of approved impo r ts is nor- ma l ly g ran ted free ly by the Bank of Ghana. A r rea rs exist w i th respect to cu r rent impo rt paymen ts and the repaymen ts of m a tu r ed 180-day t rade credits established be fo re February 7, 1972. Most impo r ts are e f fec ted w i th confirmed letters of credit established th rough Gh an a i an banks, and u su a l ly on a sight basis. Cash ma rg in deposits are prescribed on the open ing of le t ters of cred it for most imports. The rates app l icab le are n il for c rude o il and fe r t i l ize r s; 25 per cent for indu s- t r i al raw materials, chemicals, spare par ts, lub r ican t s, d rugs and o ther medical supp l ies, and b u i l d i ng ma te r ia l s; 50 per cent for mach ine ry and e q u i pm e nt ( i n c l u d i ng t ranspo rt equ ipment other t h an a u t om o b i l e s ); and 65 per cent for a ll other goods, i n c l u d i ng p r iva te passenger automobiles. For impo r ts va lued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., b anks a re fo rb idden to make p a ym e n ts aga inst a le t ter of credit or a b a nk d r a ft un less the impo rt documen ts i n c l u de a clean report of findings issued by the General Super in tendence Company L im i ted, wh ich inspects the goods and ve r i f ies the price, q u a l i t y, and q u a n t i ty in the coun t ry of o r ig in or sh ipmen t. GHANA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain paymen ts and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally author- ized. The payment of buying commission on imports is not perm i t ted. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally perm i t ted, provided that the application is properly documented. With few excep- tions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are norma l ly limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earn ings, up to a m ax imum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay; th is personal rem i t tance quo ta covers all per- sonal and f am i ly requ iremen ts and comm i tmen ts out- side Ghana, inc lud ing leave expenses, travel, education, g i f t s, insu rance p rem iums, subscriptions, and donations. Expa tr ia te employees in the m in ing and petroleum indus t r ies and in cer ta in other indus tr ies are not affected by the l im it and, fu r th e rmo r e, are allowed to transfer the ir sav ings at the end of each tour of du ty. Remit- tances of income by non -Ghana ian self-employed per- sons are also l im i ted to 40 per cent of the ir net annual ea rn ings, up to a m a x im um of US$2,600. W i th the exception of compan ies financed with locally raised cap i ta l, nonres ident companies are, in principle, p e rm i t t ed to t r a n s f er abroad f ree ly the ir net profits a f ter tax; at presen t, howeve r, t ran s fe rs of p ro f i ts are being au tho r ized only on a l im i ted basis. The t rans fer of p ro f i ts by compan ies that have been f inanced with loca l ly raised cap i tal is not pe rm i t ted. Basic exchange allocations for tourist and business t r av el were re in t roduced on August 21, 1978. An amount equ iva lent to US$50 an adu lt will be made ava i lab le once a year for tou r ist travel w i th in West A f r i c a, and the equ iva lent of US$400 an adult will be made ava i lab le once every two years for tourist travel elsewhere, wh i le fo re ign exchange for business travel w i ll be g ran ted once a year in an amount of US$85 a day for a m a x im um of two weeks. Additional alloca- t ions are pe rm i t ted for business t ravel in connection with export p romo t ion. All t ravel allocations are subject to a tax of 30 per cent. Residents of any na t iona l i ty (except ch i ld ren u n d er two years of age, d ip loma ts, and UN p e r sonn e l) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whe ther t empo r a r i ly or not, must pay a t r av el tax of 15 per cent of the price of the round- tr ip t i ck e t. Res ident trave lers may take w i th them fo re ign cur- rency notes equ iva lent to 0 100, provided t h at not more t h an the equ iva lent of <t 20 is t ak en in any one currency. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Ghanaian banknotes up to (f 20 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through a state- owned export agency, the Cocoa Ma rke t ing Board, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repa tr ia te the proceeds f rom their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external A f r ican cur- rencies or convertible currencies are granted an export bonus. This bonus is 10 per cent of the proceeds of all exports, except cocoa. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles mu st be sold to an author- ized bank. Under the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regulations, 1976, no visa or en try perm it may be granted to travelers unless they have purchased in foreign exchange f rom Ghanaian embassies abroad, or on arrival in Ghana, vouchers corresponding to 0 140 for the first day's stay plus $ 70 for each subsequent day of their stay in the coun try. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghana ian currency notes in excess of 0 20 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board if it is to benef it f rom the facilities available under the Capital Investments Decree of 1973. Investments approved under the Decree are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or l iqu ida t ion, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Decree stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expro- priated and tha t, when approved enterprises are na t iona l- ized in the public interest, f a ir compensation is to be de term ined either by vo lun ta ry agreement of the par t ies or through arb i tra t ion by the In te rna t ional Center for Settlement of Inves tment Disputes. Certain areas of economic ac t iv i ty are not open to fo re igne rs. Govern- ment policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many eco- nom ic activities. This policy is imp lemen ted p r im a r i ly on the basis of the Inves tment Policy Decree, 1975, and the Ghana ian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975. The proceeds of the sales of fore ign ownersh ip to Gh a n a i an nationals are held in blocked, noninterest- bear ing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts 176 carry an exchange ra te guarantee. No transfers had been permitted by the end of 1978. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such t rans fe rs must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered ind iv idua l ly on their merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign na t iona ls leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresi- dents. New borrowing abroad is screened by the Per- manent Review Committee on Public Agreements, which for private sector borrowing relies on the recommenda- tions of the Bank of Ghana. Private import credits in excess of <£ 100,000 for machinery and equipment require approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these requ i re exchange control approval and normally are limited to 60 days. Borrowing abroad by commer- cial banks requires the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or m in ing according to ind igenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the M in is try of Trade and Tourism in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by pe rm it under the Gold M in ing Prod- ucts Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, no Gh an a i an resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold f rom, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies are not no rma l ly licensed. The import du ty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export the ir en t ire ou tput in semirefined fo rm. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of <t 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1978 June 19. Ghana adopted a flexible exchange ra te system under which the exchange ra te of the cedi aga inst the U.S. dollar would be adjusted to reflect the unde r- lying economic, financial, and ba lance of paymen ts situation. July 10. The issuance of special unnumb e r ed import licenses (SUL s ), which had already been severely limited f rom Ju ly 1977 onward, was suspended. August 21. Foreign exchange allowances were reintroduced for tourist and business t rave l. An amount e q u i v a l e nt to US$50 an a d u lt wou ld be made ava i lab le once a year for tou r ist t ravel w i th in West A f r i c a, and the equ iva lent of US$400 an adu lt wou ld be made avail- able once eve ry two years for tour ist t r av el elsewhere. Foreign exchange for regu lar bus iness travel equ iva lent to US$85 a day for a max imum period of 14 days would be gran ted once a year, but add i t ional allowances would be made available for t ravel in connection with export promotion. August 28. The exchange ra te of the cedi against the U.S. dollar was adjusted f r om £ 1=US$0.5917 to <t 1 = US$0.3636, resu l t ing in a cumu la t ive depreciation of 58.2 per cent since J u ne 20. September 12. The export bonus, which had pre- viously amoun ted to 30 per cent and 20 per cent of the export value, depending on the category involved, was un if ied at 10 per cent. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The authorities of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma, and do not ma in ta in ma rg ins in respect of exchange transac t ions. On December 29, 1978 the Bank of Greece quoted buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, of Dr 35.67 and Dr 36.91, respectively, per US$1. O f f ic ial quo ta t ions for certain other currencies1 are de te rm ined da i ly on the basis of the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional markets. The Bank of Greece o f fe rs fo rwa rd cover in U.S. dollars only. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is the respons ib i l i ty of the M in is try of Finance, the Cu r rency Comm i t tee, the Credit Subcommittee, the Foreign Exchange Con trol Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcom- mittee for Financial Requ iremen ts, and the M in is t ry of Commerce is responsible for impo rt policy. Exchange control is imp lemen ted, and impo rt approva ls are granted, by the Bank of Greece and au thor ized commer- cial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the M in i s t ry of Commerce, and, in some cases, requ ire the prior approval of the appropriate m in is t ry. The au thor ized banks may make exchange settlements re la t ing to per- mitted trade transactions and may g rant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified inv is ib le transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accoun ts in d rachmas 1 Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canadian dollars, Cyp rus pounds, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, Finnish ma rk- kaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f rancs. The Bank of Greece also quotes bankno te rates for various fore ign currenc ies. 2 Greece ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements with Albania, Bul- ga r ia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, and Roman ia. Most settlements w i th Por- tugal are channeled th rough special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. 178 or convertible currencies. These accounts may be cred- ited with convertible fore ign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies, with authorized paymen ts by residents of Greece for imports or services payab le in convertible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current trans- actions, for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and t rans fer abroad of any convertible currency. Any w i thdrawal f rom drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. At the end of 1978, the max imum rate of interest on such accounts was 1.5 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible fore ign exchange for a m in imum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 5.5 and 7 per cent per annum, according to their term. Special regulations apply to nonresident investors, inc lud ing Greek nationals permanen t ly residing abroad (see section on Capital, be low ). Nonresidents may establish time deposits, under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, for a m in imum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in converti- ble currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, according to their term, and principal and interest are free ly t rans fe rab le at ma tu r i ty in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared, and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 for each month of the visitor's stay in Greece, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the f u n ds were held before December 31, 1973; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released sem iannua l ly for rem i t tance by each account holder, from accounts opened af ter Janua ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively f rom rents. Other balances on blocked accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with f u n ds or ig ina t ing abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, pro- vided that the f u n ds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained th rough the intermediation of a shipping firm established in Greece. At the end of 1978, balances on these accoun ts earned interest at 3 per cent per a n n um for sight deposits, up to 9.5 per cent per annum for t ime deposits, and 7 per cent per annum for savings b ank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into foreign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereaf ter. Similar fac i l i t ies for for- eign currency accounts exist und er a Hous ing Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts of all commodities o r ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. All other imports (except those of goods on Lists F and P w i th an invo ice va lue c.i.f. of the equ iva lent of US$300 or less, for which payment w i ll be made t h r o u gh an au tho r ized b a n k) require approval. For most impor ts, prior approval is requ ired; however, for ce r ta in commod i t ies, ma in ly mach inery and raw ma te r ia ls, impo r ts may be effec ted w i thout pr ior app rova l, prov ided th at approval is ob ta ined subsequen t ly. The g r a n t i ng of an impo rt approval implies that the necessary fo r e ign exchange w i ll be made available. Apa rt f rom impor ts for wh ich special licenses are requ ired, two general impo rt p rocedu res (E and D) are applicable to impor ts, m a in ly for s ta t i s t ical pu r- poses. Under procedure E, the app roval of an au tho r- ized bank is required ( 1) for impor ts f rom coun t r ies previously par t ic ipa t ing in the European Mone ta ry Agreement when payment is to be made in a con- vertible or externally conver t ib le Eu ropean cu r rency; (2) for imports f rom Canada or the Un i ted States when payment is to be made in f ree do l lars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement au tho r iza t ions und er U.S. aid; and (3) for imports f rom coun t r ies w i th wh ich Greece has concluded b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen ts when pay- ment is to be made th rough the re levant c lea r ing account. No license is necessary und er procedure E, but import applications wh ich have been approved by an authorized b ank are registered w i th the B ank of Greece. Und er procedure D, an impo rt approval issued by the Bank of Greece is requ i red for impo r ts financed by U.S. aid, for impor ts other th an those covered by proce- du re E, for certain imports effec ted for the account of the State, and for imports for which the impo r ter requests changes in the general provisions conce rn ing the terms of shipment, method of se t t lemen t, te rms of GREECE payment, etc. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, silver, precious stones, jewe lry, f u r s, perfumes, textiles, automobiles and parts, television receivers, and certain food s tu f f s) and List B (cer ta in types of mach inery and spare p a r t s ). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued res tr ic t ive ly, but for others they are issued au toma t ica l ly. Special regulations govern imports of pe tro leum prod- ucts s im i lar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, su l fu r, and motion-picture films, as well as bar ter trans- actions based on clearing agreements. All private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P ) .3 Payments for imports may be made by le t ter of c red i t, by cash against ship- p i ng documen t s, or by acceptance of t ime d r a f ts (wh ich is pe rm i t ted only for goods in List P, there be ing no t ime l im it for th is l i s t ). The M in i s t ry of Commerce may au tho r ize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred p aym en ts for impo r ts not inc luded in List P. When t ime d r a f ts are accepted, a personal w r i t ten u n d e r t a k i ng am o u n t i ng to 4 per cent of the amount of the d r a ft is requ i red as a gua ran tee th at the payment w i ll be made w i th in the prescribed t ime l im i ts. When a le t ter of cred it is opened, the impo r ter is r equ i r ed to deposit in drachmas the en t i re amount of the c red it w i th the i n t e r v e n i ng bank. In add i t ion, for those impo r ts in c lud ed in List F-100 /1, a f u r t h er cash deposit of 40 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue is requ ired as security for impo rt du t i es and other taxes. For impor ts u n d er p rocedu re E, th is deposit must be made when the impo rt approval is ob ta ined; for impo r ts under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the impo rt app rova l. Advance deposits are not requ i red for impo r ts for wh ich payment is to be made by acceptance of t ime d r a f t s. When paymen ts for impo r ts are to be made aga inst sight d r a f t s, advance deposits in cash are requ i red for p r iva te imports inc luded in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2.4 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c .i .f. invoice va lue and consist of two componen ts: a p repayment required when app ly ing for an import approval and an advance (secu r i ty) against impo rt du t ies and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for cap i tal goods and spare pa r ts that are exempt f rom import d u ty by v i r t ue of the laws gove rn ing investment of fo re ign or domes t ic cap i ta l. The rates of deposit at :! Of these six lists, L is ts F and P are those c o n t a i n i ng all im p o r ts t h at are not sub ject to special p a ym e nt or deposit regu la t ion s. 4 The to t al deposit r e q u i r ed for used au tomob i les for p r i v a te use, w h i ch are not in c lud ed in any of these l i s ts or in Lists F or P, is 150 per c e n t. No depos i ts a re r equ i r ed for goods in Lists F and P .' 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE the end of 1978 for each list of imports are set out below. Prepayment Security Total List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 In per cent of invoice value 50 20 20 8 100 40 40 16 70 28 140 56 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a fu r ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the in terven ing bank ( 1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) w i th in 10 days ( for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under pro- cedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clear- ance of the goods, and advance deposits are r e fund ed; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, the deposits must be retained by the com- mercial bank for a period of two to four months f rom the date on which they were made. The b ank rece iv ing the deposit must redeposit it w i th the Bank of Greece. Certain companies, public agencies, and organ iza t ions that have been designated pub l ic service in s t i tu t ions are exempt f rom the advance deposit requirements. Payments for imports may be made on the presenta- tion of en try documents. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public u t i l i ty companies. Except for goods in List P, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped w i th in six months and arrive in Greece w i th in nine months a f ter the da te of import approval. Final settlement of the va lue of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arr ival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place w i th in 120 days fo l low ing the da te of a r r iv al for goods in List P. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-6 per cent of the c.i.f. du ty -pa id and tax-pa id v a l u e. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles r e q u i re approva l, but th is is g ran ted f r e e ly for expenses inc iden tal to au thor ized t rade transactions and for cer ta in other transac t ions. Residents t rave l ing abroad for f am i ly reasons or tou r ism are en t i t led to the equ iva lent of US$250 for one t r ip a year; ins tead of th is a l lowance, tou r is ts par- t ic ipa t ing in group tou rs are granted an amount based on a cost declaration subm i t ted by the t ravel agency. Requests for larger amoun ts or for other types of t ravel 180 are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. The Bank of Greece nor- mally provides foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, within the following limits: US$3,000 a trip for exporters; US$2,000 a trip for industrialists and hotel managers; US$650 a trip for other businessmen; US$1,000 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and US$750 a trip for newspaper editors and reporters and travel agents. For medical treatment abroad the Subcommittee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, provided that the relevant accounts are submitted. It also authorizes US$350 a month for studies in the United States and Canada and US$300 a month for studies in other for- eign countries (for postgraduate studies, up to US$450 and US$400, respectively). Travelers may take with them a max imum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes without having declared them upon entry, provided that departure is within six months of arrival; the export of larger amounts af ter a visit of less than 12 months is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declara- tion upon en try. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared, and for visits of more than 12 months' du ra t ion. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports requ ire ind iv idual licenses, but most exports are free of quan t i ta t ive l im i ta t ion. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered w i th in 180 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period to two years for m anu f a c tu r es and to one year for other commodities. The M in is try of Commerce may license barter trans- actions invo lv ing the export of tobacco, certain types of f r u i t, and wines; such transactions are permitted with Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslo- vak ia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.; in practice, however, such barter transactions have ceased. In addi- t ion, any commodity may, subject to ind iv idual authori- zation by the Bank of Greece, be exported on a barter basis to A lban ia, the People's Republic of China, the Repub l ic of China, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing paymen ts for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping are exempt f rom the surrender requ iremen t, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expenses in Greece in local cu r rency ob ta ined t h r o u gh the sale of foreign exchange to the B a nk of Greece. Travelers may b r ing in a m a x im um of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Any surp lus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to p r ior approval by the Bank, the surp lus may be taken out on depa r tu re or spent in Greece on personal f i n a n c i al requirements. Greek residents r e t u r n i ng to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in the ir possession if they wish to take it out for the next j o u r n e y. Non re s ident travelers of fore ign na t iona l i ty may impo rt any amount of fo re ign currency and need not declare it at the t ime of entering the coun try, and nonres iden ts ho ld ing Greek passports are requ ired to dec la re the ir fo r e ign exchange only if they in tend, when leav ing Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial b anks and inv e s tm ent banks may bor- row conver t ib le currencies abroad, p rov ided that they lend corresponding amoun ts as fo re ign cu r r en cy loans for periods of at least five years to p roduc t ive en te r- prises established in Greece. All other inve s tmen ts in Greece by nonresidents are subject to app rova l. Such approval is au toma t ic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687 /53, approved foreign inves tmen ts wh ich aim at the promo- tion of na t ional p roduc t ion or o therw ise con t r ibu te to the economic advancement of Greece may be gran ted preferen t ial trea tmen t .5 Under Law No. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256 /62, by Legis- la t ive Decree No. 916 of Ju ly 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975, f u r t h er privileges are prov ided for fore ign capital pa r t ic ipa t ing in inves tment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 m i l l ion in v a l u e. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256 /62 provides additional repatriation facilities for fo re ign inves tmen ts which promote exports. Repatriation facilities a re as fo l lows: ( 1) App roved inves tmen ts may not be repa tr ia ted be fo re one year f rom the date the enterprise begins to operate p roduc- t ive ly and in no case before one year f rom the da te the capital was impor ted. (2) The repa t r ia t ion of fore ign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repa tr ia t ion of divi- dends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171 /61, profits on approved fore ign investments may be transferred abroad in amoun ts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repa tr ia ted po r t ion of the cap i ta l, prov ided, however, that the amount of prof i ts t ran s- ferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the fo re ign r> This decree also p rov ides for the o p e n i ng of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy accoun ts by non res iden ts and the r e t r a n s f er of the deposits as well as the t r a n s f er of in te rest the reon. GREECE exchange ea rn ings of the en terpr ise f r om the sale of its p roduc ts abroad. (4) For inve s tmen ts made under Leg is la t ive Decree No. 2687 /53 that are not covered by Law No. 4 1 7 1 / 6 1, the t ran s fer of p ro f i ts is related to the re s idual cap i tal r em a i n i ng in Greece, and the t ran s fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been r ep a t r i a t ed. (5) Under the prov is ions of Leg is la t ive Decree No. 4256 /62, the repa t r ia t ion of capital and p ro f i ts of fo r e ign inve s tmen ts approved under the pro- v is ions of Legislative Decree No. 2687 /53 can exceed the ra tes specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the fo re ign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its p roduc ts abroad. Also, fore ign loans approved und er Legislative Decree No. 2687 /53 can be repa tr ia ted at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the va lue of the share capital and that the amoun ts repa tr ia ted do not exceed 70 per cent of the fo re ign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations f rom the general regulations may be approved for fo re ign capital impor ted to develop exports of ag r icu l tu ral and m in ing products or invested in enter- prises of special impo r tance to the economy. Specified fo re ign short-term inves tment may also be gran ted p re f- e ren t ial t rea tment in respect of the repa t r ia t ion of cap i tal and the t ran s fer of in teres t. T ran s fe rs of cap i tal abroad by residents requ ire approva l. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase specified gold coins (m a i n ly sovereigns) f rom the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central b ank; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the f ree ma rket that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymous ly and w i thout fo rm a l i ty to the Bank of Greece or to an au thor- ized bank at the official price. Residents may deal f ree ly, however, in bullion. Impor ts of gold against payment in fo re ign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and requ ire a special license issued by the M in- istry of Commerce; licenses are norma l ly issued to repu tab le impor ters for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported free ly by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no pay- ment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved with the exception that gold bars or coin brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the pr ior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1978 January 1. The consumption tax of 25 per cent on l u x u ry consumer items was abolished. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE January 1. The bilateral payments agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. was terminated. Under a new t rade agreement between the two countries covering the period Jan- ua ry 1, 1979-December 31, 1982, all t rade transac t ions were to be settled in convertible currency. January 1. Imports of fresh and frozen meat were classified in List A, for which an impo rt license is required. January 1. The bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th Yugoslavia expired. June 23. Au thor iza t ion of pro forma invoices for certain imports of Japanese origin was suspended. The suspension was l i f ted on J anu a ry 1, 1979. July 12. Advance payment for imports was no longer perm i t ted. Henceforth, importers were required to pre- sent en t ry documen ts before obtaining fore ign exchange. August 24. Several import items were placed on l icens ing List A, requiring prior approval f rom the M in is t ry of Commerce. The import items included tires, plywood and certain lam ina ted wood, and certain types of co t ton, wool, and syn tf ie t ic ya rns and fibers. September 1. Newspr int and paper used in the p r in t- ing of magazines were removed f rom import List A. December 31. The bilateral paymen ts arrangement w i th Egypt was term ina ted. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Au thor i ty also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 per cent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance, Trade, and Indu s t ry. The M in i s t ry delegates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve some impo rt payments and cer ta in other ou tward paymen ts. The exchange control directives do not app ly to t ransac t ions w i th Rhodesia or South A f r i c a. Trade controls also are adm in is tered by the M in is t ry of F inance, Trade, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean do l la r s) or in the cu r rency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements w i th residents of the fo rmer Sterling Area countries, other than CAR ICOM countries, may be made in s ter l ing, in any other fo rmer Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and f rom External Accounts. Settlements with residents of coun- tr ies outside the fo rm er Sterling Area other t h an Rho- desia may be made in any fo re ign cu r r en cy3 or through an External Account in East Car ibbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts Ex te rnal Accoun ts may be opened for non res iden ts by au thor ized dealers w i thout reference to the M in is t ry of Finance, Trade, and Indus t ry. These accoun ts are m a i n t a i n ed in East Caribbean do l la rs. They may be credited w i th proceeds f r om the sale of fo r e ign curren- cies, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other Ex ternal Accounts, with bank interest (payab le on Ex ternal A c c o u n t s ), and with paymen ts by res iden ts for wh ich general or specific permission has been given by the M i n i s t r y. They may be 1 The East Car ibbean dollar is also the cu r r en cy of A n t i g u a, Do- m i n i c a, Mon t se r ra t, S t. K i t t s -Nev i s -Angu i l la, S t. Luc ia, and S t. V incen t. 2 The CAR ICOM coun t r i es are A n t i g u a, Barbados, Be l ize, Dom in ica, G renada, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon t se r ra t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s -A n g u i l l a, S t. Luc ia, St. V incen t, and T r i n i d ad and Tobago. 3 Foreign cu r renc ies compr ise all cu r renc ies o ther Caribbean dollar. t h an the East debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by dele- gated au thor i ty to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license f rom all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported f rom CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran ts) to the Ministry of F inance, Trade, and Indus try; however, the Ministry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of impo r ts or ig ina t ing in CARICOM coun- tries. Advance payments for impor ts require prior approval by the M in is try of Finance, Trade, and Indus try. Impo r ts not exempt f rom customs du ty are subject to a s tamp tax of 7.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles require exchange control approval. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel ( f or which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for privaie travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business t r av e l ), subscriptions to magaz ines and periodicals, and l i fe insurance pre- m i ums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tour ism, app l ica t ions for additional amoun t s, or for purposes for which there is no basic a l loca t ion, no rma l ly are approved by the Ministry of F inance, Trade, and Indus t ry, provided that no unau- tho r ized t r a n s f er of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tou r ism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on the ir merits. The cost of transpor ta t ion to any de s t ina t ion may be settled in domestic currency and is not d edu c t ed f rom the travel allocation. Res ident trave lers may take out fo re ign currency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of EC$3,000 and East Car ibbean currency notes w i thout l im i t. Nonresi- dent trave lers may f ree ly export any foreign currency p rev ious ly brought in, as well as any amount in East Car ibbean currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA certain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period f rom the date of shipment, but the collection of export pro- ceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Grenada may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital t rans fe rs, such as inheritances to non- residents, require exchange control approval, which norma l ly is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are cer ta in allowances for cash g i f ts (EC$500 a person a yea r) and for em igra t ion pur- poses. The Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry will also consider t ran s fer applications f rom fore ign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceed- ing to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, provided that any liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Indus t ry. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for pr iva te purposes with funds f rom fore ign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds f rom the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Gren- ada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and non- trade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits f rom nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- m i t ted to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry or coins for num isma t ic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for indus tr ial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to impo rt gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Indus try. The export of gold is not normally perm i t ted. Changes during 1978 February 3. A new single-tier customs tariff was introduced, and the Commonwealth preferential duty rate was abolished. February 20. The tax imposed on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks (except for the payment of imports of some basic foods and drugs) was increased f rom 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent. June 23. The s tamp duty imposed on the un it value of customs bills of entry was increased to 7.5 per cent. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Gua tema la is the Gua tema lan Que t- zal, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Q 1.00 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1.01, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, ma in ly on the basis of their rates in the New York mar- ket. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On Janua ry 27, 1947 Gua tema la notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control but all inwa rd and out- wa rd transfers are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Gua tema la. Foreign exchange transactions of the public, sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua tema la and those of the private sector are carried out through the med ium of authorized banks appointed by the Monetary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments between Gua tema la and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua are normally made in the currency of the coun try concerned through the Central Amer ican Clearing House. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and f rom other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for impor ts of maps of Gua tema la, explosives, lead, poultry, m i lk, eggs, sugar, cacao, bu t ter, vegetable oil, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, cement, timber, and a few other goods. Imports from all sources of coffee beans, coffee plants, and tallow are prohibited. Imports f rom Hon- du r as are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Pay- ments for permitted imports may be made freely and in any currency. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Gua tema la grants duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indus t r ial firms. Imports originating outside the Central Amer ican Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. 1 A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian f r a n c s, C an ad i an do l la rs, deu tsche m a r k, French f r an c s, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swedish k ron e r, and Swiss f r an c s. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no l im i ta t ions on payments for and pro- ceeds f rom inv is ib les. All in terna t ional air passages are sub ject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and non- res iden ts may free ly br ing in or take out any amount in fo re ign or domestic bankno tes and other means of paymen t. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a number of items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold and silver in any form (unless the Bank of Gua tema la issues a special export l icense). Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inwa rd or ou twa rd capital transfers by residents or non- residents. All inves tment by foreign or foreign- controlled companies in the construction of private hous ing in Gua tema la requires the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Gua tema la is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or th rough au tho r ized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or indu s t r i al users, in accordance w i th directives of the Mone tary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Gua tema la issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Gua tema la. Changes during 1978 June 14. The M in is try of Economy exempted several commodities f rom import levies, inc lud ing corn, house- hold l inen, underwear, polyester yarn, textiles made of synthetic fibers, oilcloth, electric lines, telephone cables, and bicycle parts. September 11. At the request of the Nicaraguan mone tary authorities it was announced that a check in N ica raguan cordobas dated a f ter September 9, 1978 would be negotiated only if an authorization were stamped on it by the Central Bank of Nicaragua. October 30. Imports of A f r ican bees and animals f r om countries infected with hoof and mouth disease, A f r ican hog fever, cattle pest, etc., were prohibited. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Gu inea is the Gu in e an Sy l i, which is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies1 quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA f r a nc and the Mali f r anc result f rom the relationship between these currencies and the French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currenc ies2 are determined in accordance with the appropriate cross rates in international markets. Transactions under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. are settled in U.S. dollars at the rate of GS 20.46 per US$1, and in respect of the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China, in renminbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per renminbi 1. A single exchange rate for the U.S. dollar applies to transfer operations. On December 31, 1978 it was GS 19.111=US$1. The official buying and selling rates for banknotes were GS 17.60 and GS 21.00, respectively, per US$ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Bank's Exchange Control Office. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPORTEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.3 Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. - Principally, the Saudi Arabian riyal. :? Guinea maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th People's Republic of China and U.S.S.R. The agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Lebanon, and Viet Nam are regarded as inoperative. 186 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonres ident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a non res ident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Five-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by IMPORTEX within the f ramewo rk of the annual import program. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports are effected outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made by two "mixed economy companies" ( the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Five-Year Plan. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed economy com- panies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made, unless financed from retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is considered individually. Government officials on offi- cial missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 6,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of rela- tives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fa res for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. For officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the equivalent of the amount of a government scholar- ship, i.e., GS 2,250 a month. Students beg inn ing their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Gove rnmen t. Expatriate workers employed by the pub l ic sector in Gu inea may t rans fer abroad 40 per cent of their net mon th ly salaries and those employed by the pr iva te sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all exports except those of the "mixed economy com- panies." A ll exports requ ire ind iv idu al licenses in order ( 1) to assure the imp lemen ta t ion of the export program (pa r- t icu lar ly in respect of comm i tmen ts under b i la te ral t rade agreemen ts); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in fore ign exchange are levied on the vo lume of baux i te and a lum ina expo r ted ); ( 3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to prevent the export of cap i ta l. Special au thor iza t ion f rom designated agen- cies is required in add i t ion to the export license for the fo l low ing commodities: wild an ima ls (dead or a l ive ), edible an ima ls, articles of historic or e thnog raph ic inter- est, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and p lan ts and seeds. An export license is gran ted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to su r render the proceeds immed ia te ly a f ter they are collected. Other than those effec ted by the "mixed economy companies," most exports are made by three state exporting enterprises, PROM IN EX, PROSECO, and FRUTEX, which are subsidiaries of a ho ld ing company, SECOMEX. Foreign p lan ters may be gran ted special t ran s fer privi- leges related to the qu an t i ty of pineapples, banana s, or c i trus f r u i ts exported, and p r iva te t rade rs may also be permitted to re ta in a pa rt of their export proceeds in order to f inance authorized impor ts. The "mixed econ- omy companies" are allowed to re ta in the ir export proceeds abroad, to pay for the ir impo r ts and ope ra t ing requ i remen ts and to service the ir ex ternal debt. All other export proceeds must be su r rende red. GUINEA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, af ter deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction may not be less than the equ iva lent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expendi- tu re was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign inves tmen ts in the indus tr ial and m in ing sectors. It also provides for preferen t ial tax and customs treatment app l icab le to fo re ign investments and for the transfer of prof i ts, interest, amo r t iza t ion, and l iqu ida t ion pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 15 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be gran ted on long-term investments of par- t i c u l ar importance to the economy. The ac tual condi- t ions under which fo re ign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of the Inve s tment Law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Guinea for num isma t ic purposes. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and au thor ized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other th an jewe lry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1978 January I. Gu inea jo ined the West A f r ican Clearing House. September 26. As a result of Guinea's admission to the West A f r i c an C lear ing House, exchange operations between Gu inea and Senegal and Sierra Leone were to be effec ted th rough the C lear ing House; the b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th Senegal and Sierra Leone were te rm ina ted. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System Payments for Invisibles The currency of Gu inea-B issau is the Gu inea-B issau Peso which is pegged to the SDR at PG 44 = SDR 1. The authorities ma in ta in the Guinea-Bissau peso w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent f rom the fixed relationship between the peso and the SDR, i.e., between maximum and m in imum rates of PG 44.99 and PG 43.01, respectively, per SDR 1. Daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed w i t h in l im i ts of 1.8 per cent of the SDR rates for these currencies. On December 31, 1978, the buy ing and selling rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 33.747, and PG 34.399, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transac t ions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department (Diregao Geral de Operates com o Estrangeiro) of the cen t ral bank. For- eign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the cen tral bank. Res iden ts must declare to the c en t r al b a nk a ll the ir phys ical assets and fo re ign exchange ho ld ings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th a ll fo re ign coun t r ies m u st be made in foreign currency. The cen t ral b ank may prescribe the currency in which export e a rn ings sha ll be received. Guinea-Bissau m a i n t a i ns b i la teral p aym en ts agreements w i th Algeria and Cape Verde. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior l icens ing. In p r inc i- ple, licenses are issued by the State Comm issar iat of Commerce, Indu s t ry, and H and i c r a f ts on the basis of a mon th ly ceiling f ixed by the cen t ral bank and are va l id for the period of the import t ran sac t ion. Licenses granted have to be presented to the cen tral bank w i t h in 15 days. Only importers registered w i th the State Com- missariat of Commerce, Indu s t ry, and H a n d i c r a f ts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the q u a n t i ty and va lue (c . i .f. and f.o.b.) of the p roduct impo r ted. A separate license is requ i red for each p roduct impo r ted. Licenses for pro jec t-re la ted impo r ts f inanced by f o r e i gn loans or gran ts are g ran ted au toma t ica l ly. Import licenses are no rma l ly prov ided w i t h in 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foods tu f fs, such as rice and suga r, are state monopolies. Since November 1977, the system of im p o rt l icenses issued on the basis of a m o n t h ly c e i l i ng has been sus- pended. At present, on ly those impo rt opera t ions con- sidered u rgent or essen t ial are p e rm i t t ed. 188 A ll paymen ts for invisibles requ ire the prior approval of the Comm i t tee of Foreign Exchange Control, und er the transitory rules established in 1975. Foreign exchange allocations for many paymen ts for invisibles, in c lud ing those for tou r i sm and for the pu rchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and p ro f it rem i t tances, have been tempo ra r i ly suspended. T ran s fe rs of pension pay- ments are au tho r ized in accordance w i th cr i ter ia f ixed in the t ran s i to ry rules. Transfers of prof i ts have been suspended and w i ll be permitted only af ter the Invest- ment Code, now in prepara t ion, has been finalized and approved. A l though no fo re ign exchange may be pu r- chased for tourism, a i rp lane t icke ts can be bought us ing domestic currency. Moreover, pu rchase of Cape Verde escudos for purposes of tour ism in that coun t ry are per- m i t ted up to the equ iva lent of PG 10,000 a person. A i r l ine companies may t ran s fer in fore ign exchange the d i f fe rence between the ir paymen ts and receipts in Gu inea -B issau pesos. These t r an s f e rs are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for bus iness t ravel are l im i t ed to PG 15,000 a t r ip. For s tudy abroad fore ign exchange is gran ted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 2,000 in each of the following mon ths (PG 3,500 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher- level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are perm i t ted up to PG 20,000. Rem i t tances to close relatives (paren ts and ch i ld ren) l iv ing abroad are per- m i t ted up to PG 2,500 a mon th. Foreign travelers may take out the amount of fo re ign cu r rency declared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered w i th the State Commissariat of Commerce, Indus try, and Hand ic ra f ts may ob ta in export licenses, which are gran ted au toma t ica l ly in most cases. Exports of g roundnu ts are reserved for the Gove rnment and are e f fec ted by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported on ly by the Govern- ment inc lude pa lm kernels, sawn wood and logs, sh r imp, f ish, beer, soft d r inks, g r o u n d n ut oil, and par- quet f loo r ing. All exports are sub ject to a general fee of 1 per cent. Most exports are also sub ject to export taxes, wh ich range f rom 3 per cent for firewood to 15 per cent for crocodile h ides, w i th most p roduc ts in the 9 —10 per cent range. All expo rt proceeds mu st be surrendered to the cen t ral b a n k. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may b r ing in any am o u nt of fo re ign cur- rency. Foreign a i r l ine compan ies mu st cover the excess of th e ir exp end i tu r es over revenues in Guinea-Bissau ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Gu inea-B issau pesos. All proceeds from inv is ib les must be su r rende red to the central bank. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all cap i tal receipts and payments. Capital t rans fe rs associated w i th em igra- tion are authorized by the " trans i tory norms" w i t h in a mon th ly l im it of PG 50,000 and up to 20 per cent of total taxable income earned d u r i ng no more t h an ten years. At present, however, such t r an s f e rs are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are proh ib i ted, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the State Commissar for Finance. Changes during 1978 March L The Government announced the establish- ment of the Commission for the Regu la t ion of External Debt. May 26. The Guinea-Bissau peso was unpegged f rom the Portuguese escudo and was pegged to the SDR at the rate of PG 44 = SDR 1. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of G u y a na is the G u y a na Dollar, which is pegged to the U. S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at G$2.55 = US$1. On December 29, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th da i ly quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guy ana ( the cen t ral b ank) charges commissions at d i f fe rent rates on the purchase and sale of the off ic ia l ly quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Guyana fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Minister of Finance who has en trus ted its adm in i s t r a t ion to the Bank of Guyana. Au tho r i ty for app rov ing impo rt pay- ments of up to G$ 1,500 and p rov id ing allocations of fore ign exchange for other cu r rent payments up to specified amoun ts is delegated to the banks authorized for th is purpose; all other import paymen ts and certain paymen ts in respect of cu r rent inv is ib les of a personal n a tu r e, however, requ ire the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The M in is t ry of Trade is responsible for issuing impo rt and export licenses, but impo rt licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all cur- rencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Au thor ized paymen ts, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an Exter- nal Account in Guyana. Receipts f rom countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified cu r rency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars f rom an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any country 1 Barbados dollars, Canad ian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and T r in idad and Tobago dollars. 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 190 outside Guyana, except Rhodesia. They may be credited free ly with all authorized payments by residents of Guy ana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited f ree ly for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, and for w i thd rawa ls by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with f u n ds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- den ts (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for cer ta in authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accoun ts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applica- tions for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate but no exchange rate guarantee. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom the Republic of China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited f rom all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibition is not enforced, while others are subject to quotas, if they qua l ify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports f r om coun tr ies of the Caribbean Common Market— CAR icoM ) .3 All permissible imports (except parcel post i tems and trade samples up to a specified va lue ), irre- spective of origin, are subject to individual licensing. The g ran t ing of ind iv idual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities originating in Albania, Bu lga r ia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vak ia, the Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, No r th Korea, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are generally gran ted freely, but such imports must be effec ted through the External Trade Bureau. The Exter- nal Trade Bu reau has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities ( inc lud ing certain dairy products) f rom all sources. Certain other goods (pr imar i ly paper products, such as books and newsprint) may be imported only through the Guyana National Trading Corporation, wh i le Pharmaceuticals, other drugs, and surgical instru- ments may be imported only through the Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation. Certain foodstuffs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that fall under the agricultural marketing protocol of the CARIFTA/CARICOM Agreement. Payments for authorized imports are generally per- mitted upon application and submission of documentary 3 The CAR ICOM countries are An t igu a, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, Guy an a, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. V incen t, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution evidence, subject to the availability of foreign exchange. There has been some accumulation of commercial arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval, which, except for tourist travel, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is involved but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel has been suspended. Travel allowances to residents may only be granted on an ind iv idual basis. Standard alloca- tions are applied to certain payments of a personal na tu re on an annual basis, e.g., for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld ), for education at uni- versities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each s tuden t ), and for fam i ly maintenance (G$4,800 for each f am i l y ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$15; these notes do not fo rm part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In add i t ion, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Nonresident travelers may, w i th in one month of the ir last en try freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to the Republic of Ch ina, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and a lum ina only by the Guyana M in ing Enterprise L im i ted. Certain other exports also are channe led th rough official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but trans- actions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Depar tment to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repa tr ia ted and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see foo tno te 2 ), surrendered. Exchange control fo rms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see foo tno te 2) received on account of inv is ib les mu st be sold to an au tho r ized bank, but other currenc ies may be re ta ined by the recipient. Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly any amount in foreign bankno tes; domes t ic bankno tes up to a va lue of G$15 may be brought in by r e t u r n i ng travelers only. Capital Foreign inves tors must app ly to the Bank of Guyana for "approved s ta tus" for new inves tmen ts at the t ime of inve s tment in order to be able to repa t r ia te cap i ta l. Such approval is normally given for direct inves tmen ts in new projects that would bene f it the balance of payments or GUYANA the economy of Guy an a; "approved status" assures that prof i ts may be rem i t ted, and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments a f ter payment of all taxes, may be repatri- ated in fu ll in the currency of the original investment. For the t ime being, however, foreign-based companies (o ther th an those based in the CARICOM area) and their subsidiaries are prohibited f rom borrowing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other cur- rencies may be re ta ined by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese n a t i o n a l i ty may not t rans fer abroad any part of the ir cap i tal assets other than a settling-in allowance of C$100 for each member of a fam i ly un i t; emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a f am i ly un it at the time of em ig ra t ion and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrow ing f rom nonres iden ts requires exchange con- trol approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the f inanc ing of specific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num i sma t ic purposes, and also jewelry. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any o ther fo rm, at home or abroad, without special permission. Ne i ther the Bank of Guyana nor any other off ic ial in s t i tu t ion purchases gold to supply domestic indus t ry. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities, authorized deal- ers, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Changes during 1978 June 19. In order to permit an orderly reduction of external payments arrears, the Bank of Guyana an- nounced that all applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit equiva- lent in va lue to be held in Blocked Accounts with comme rc ial banks. These deposits would carry a market- re la ted in terest ra te but no exchange rate guarantee. October 21. The prohibition on the t rans fer of de- preciation allowances by foreign-based companies was l if ted. December 15. The M in is try of Trade and Consumer Protection increased the allowance, f rom G$250 to G$500, for bona fide g if ts f rom abroad that may be impo r ted by residents w i thout an import license and removed the requ irement that such g if ts be unsolicited and that g if ts should not be for professional use. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G 5 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Haiti. Purchases or sales of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 per cent. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies with daily quo- tations based on the buy ing and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law, and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the Na t ional Bank of the Republic of Haiti and are imp lemen ted by that Bank and certain commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain foods tuffs, certain footwear, cotton textiles, pa in ts, and iron rods. Passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000 c.i.f. also require import licenses, which are granted freely. The importation of used cars is subject to the require- ment that the vehicle is at most five years old and has been owned by the importer for a m in imum of two years. Impor ts f rom member countries of the Coun- cil for Mu tu al Economic Assistance requ ire prior au thor- ization by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus try. The Ministry's prior au tho r iza t ion is also required for imports f rom any source of cer ta in types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of paymen ts reasons. The domestic mar- ke t ing of ce r ta in impor ts is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Importers opening letters of credit at the Na t ional Bank are required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Cer ta in impo r ts are subject to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue, in add i t ion to the app l icab le import d u t y; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an add i t ional tax of 2 per cent. Impor ters pay an "economic l ibera t ion tax" on the am o u nt of the customs invo ice; when th is amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Min- istry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Export au tho r iza t ion is usually granted free ly but may be withheld when 192 domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Essential Oils. Gold coin, gold and silver bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No ex- change control requirements are applied to proceeds f rom invisibles. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organiza- tions are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior government ap- proval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresi- dents for investments in hand icraft industries. Under a decree of Apr il 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a m in imum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Na t ional Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the fo rm of coin, min- eral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; expor ts requ ire in add i t ion prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance, while imports for industrial use requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion by the Ministry of Com- merce and Indus t ry and the M in is try of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry before customs clearance. However, com- mercial impo r ts of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are free ly permitted and do not requ i re an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1978 March 17. Haiti officially adopted the Brussels tar- iff nomenc la ture. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Hondu ras is the Hondu ran Lempira, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion cur- rency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respec- tively, per US$1. Bankno tes in Costa Rican colones, Gua tema lan quetzales, N ica raguan cordobas, and Salva- doran colones are purchased at pa r i ty rates with a 1 per cent comm iss ion, and are sold at par i ty rates. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for other cu r renc ies that are of significance to the fo re ign t rade of Hondu ras are fixed da i ly on the basis of the b u y i ng and s e l l ing ra tes of the currency concerned aga inst the U.S. do l lar in fo r e ign marke ts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Hondu ras f o rm a l ly no t if ied the Fund that it had assumed the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, beg inn ing on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for paymen ts to or f rom nonresidents. Pay- ments to the other member countries of the Central Amer ican Common Market (CACM )1 in respect of t rade and invisibles may be settled in Hondu ran lemp iras through the Central American C lear ing House. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are requ i red for a few items. Pay- men ts and t rans fe rs abroad may be made free ly; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are requ ired to file an application s ta t ing how the exchange will be used. Certain essential imports (List 1) require prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms. Certain nonessential imports (List 2) also are subject to Central Bank approval; the use of external credit to pay for these goods is prohibited. Imports of goods not appearing on either list do not require Central Bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. The import of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agr icu l tural Marke t ing. Under the provisions of the Central Amer ican Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants du ty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports f rom countries outside the CACM are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Some goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 per cent of the du ty and to a consular 1 Costa R ica, El Sa lvador, G u a t em a l a, and N ica ragua. charge of 8 per cent of the f.o.b. value. A du ty free zone was es tab l ished in Puer to Cortes in 1977. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold and sugar do not require licenses but must be registered. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Hondu r an Coffee Institute and of b an an as by the Hondu ran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the Hondu r an In s t i tu te of Agr icu l tural Marke t ing, and l um b er exports are channe led through the Hon- d u r an Forest Deve lopment Corporation (COHDEFOR ). The proceeds of exports must be repa tr ia ted to Hon- du ras; those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Hondu ras may do so on ly w i th the Central Bank or th rough the b a n k i ng system on account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles and proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained. The impo rt and export of domes t ic and fo r e ign bankno tes by t rave le rs are perm i t ted f ree ly. Capital Capital paymen ts are not subject to exchange control. However, the au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Finance is required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their t ran s fer abroad for purposes of inves tment in mu tual fund s, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mu tual f u n ds and s im i lar financial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect f u n ds in Hondu r as for deposit or inves tment abroad. The app roval of the M in is try of Finance, the Council of Economic P lann ing, and the Central Bank is required for the pub l ic sector to contract any foreign indebted- ness, whe ther for import financing or for other pur- poses. The contracting of external indebtedness by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- du ras for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, indus t r ial users, and producers of gold. All locally pro- duced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax or 5 per cent. Changes during 1978 January 1. In accordance with Decree No. 143 of August 29, 1974, the export tax on 40-lb. boxes of bananas was raised by US$0.05 to US$0.45. November 12. Under Decree No. 681 of October 23, Honduras granted duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to small and medium-sized indus tr ial firms and to producers of handicrafts. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 37, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not m a in t a in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions in Hong Kong and exchange rates for the Hong Kong dollar are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange marke t. The au thor i t ies in tervene only when necessary in order to smooth out exceptional fluctuations in exchange rates so as to ma in ta in order ly conditions in the exchange market. On December 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates in the in terbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, were HK$4.7950 and HK$4.7970, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out ma in ly by the Director of Trade, Industry, and Customs. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received f ree ly in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain du t iab le commodities and items that are controlled for hea l th, safe ty, or security reasons, imports are free from licensing con tro l. However, all goods o r ig ina t ing in or consigned f rom Rhodesia are subject to import licensing con tro l. W i th a few excep- tions a trade declaration has to be lodged w i th the Department of Trade, Indu s t ry, and Customs w i th in 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported f rom Hong Kong. The import of rice is subject to a quo ta system operated 1 Hong Kong is a nonme t ropo l i tan t e r r i t o ry in respect of w h i ch the Un i t ed K ingdom has accepted the Fund 's A r t ic les of Ag r e em en t. by the Department of Trade, Indus try, and Customs. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only to enable Hong Kong to f u l f i ll its in terna t ional obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to licensing, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may f ree ly bring in and take out any amount in domestic or fore ign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of paymen t. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm ( inc lud ing finished jewelry) are f ree ly perm i t ted and do not require licenses. Resi- den ts may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1978 July 1. Licensing control was introduced on imports and exports of pha rmaceu t ical products and medicines. August 16. The In land Revenue Ordinance was amended w i th effect f rom Ap r il 1, 1978 to tax (at 17 per cen t) profits f rom offshore borrowing and lend- ing transactions arranged by banks and other deposit- t ak ing ins t i tu t ions in Hong Kong. October 22. Licensing control was in troduced on exports of footwear. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic K rona. There is no organized foreign exchange ma rket in Iceland and official buying and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar, the principal t rad ing and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are ad ju s ted f rom time to time; on December 29, 1978 the b u y i ng and selling rates were IKr 317.70 and IKr 318.50, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are based on the official rates for the U.S. do l lar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional markets. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There is a temporary tax of 10 per cent levied on foreign exchange sold to residents for tourist travel. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, a f ter consu l t ing the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export licensing and p a ym e n ts for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regu la t ion of fore ign exchange transac t ions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensur ing that all fo re ign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as au thor ized. Two com- mercial banks., the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The au thor ized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consu l ta t ion w i th the M in is try of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements w i th countries in the dollar area and with many other coun- tries are made in U.S. dollars; with other countries fo rme r ly in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and w i th certain other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonres ident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign currency to authorized banks and w i th authorized payments due to nonresidents from 1 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian do l lars, Danish k r o- ne r, deu tsche m a r k, Finnish m a r k k a a, French f ranc s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, No rw eg i an k ron e r, P o r t u g u e se escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swed ish k r o n o r, and Swiss f ranc s. 196 residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used f ree ly for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the coun try of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.2 Special Accounts in k ronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement w i th an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and fore ign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved paymen ts f rom residents. imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license f rom any coun t ry; some 90 per cent of total imports are liberal- ized. Some 35 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to qu an t i t a t ive restriction. Some of these commodities are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal items involved are petroleum products; the only other indu s t r i al goods on the list are brooms and brushes. Ce r ta in imports, inc lud ing fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, are admitted only under state t r a d i ng arrangements. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are impor ted und er the auspices of the Ag r icu l tu ral Production Board. None of these commodities, how- ever, is subject to quantitative restriction. For imports f rom all sources, when requ ir ing a license, a fee of 1 per cent (m in imum IKr 100) is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The com- mercial banks require certain deposits for purposes of secur i ty in connection w i th certain import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a fore ign exchange permit prior to sh ipment f rom abroad, provided that the purchase is payab le at sight. However, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for p aym en t. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any t ime to buy foreign exchange to pay for the - Residents who hold fo r e ign cu r rency which they are not required to sell to au thor ized dealers may open Foreign Accounts w i th Icelandic bank s. Such accounts, denom ina ted in Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, pounds s ter l ing, and U.S. dollars, may be credited w i th authorized receipts in fore ign currencies and may be debited for authorized paymen ts in fo re ign currenc ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods. For impor ts th at requ i re an ind iv idu al license, fore ign exchange is granted in accordance w i th the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may f ree ly accept suppliers' c red it for up to 3 months f rom the date of arr ival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 impor ts; the goods not listed are m a i n ly bu i ld- ing ma ter ia ls and nonessential goods ( in c lud ing mo tor vehicles for personal use ). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 mon ths requires permission by an au tho r ized bank and the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection w i th the import of indu s t r ial raw ma ter ia ls for wh ich the produc t ion process is leng thy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government au tho r iza t ion. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles are sub- ject to an import surcharge of 50 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 25 per cent for a l im i ted numb er of taxicabs. Buses, heavy t rucks, ambu lances, tractors, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whe ther impor ted or of domestic o r ig in, are subject to a temporary excise tax of 16 per cent and 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for gove rnment pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on ex t e rn al loans, expenses of the foreign service, paymen ts to i n t e r- na t ional organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone serv ices), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transac t ions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1.75 per cent for the provision of tourist exchange; for other payments for invisibles the license fee is 1 per cent. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 215,000 a person for one t r ip a year ( IKr 107,500 for ch i ld ren ); if a second t r ip is made in the same calendar year, an additional 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. A temporary exchange tax of 10 per cent is also levied on exchange provided for tourist travel. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connec- tion with direct insurance, and insurance operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usua l ly is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out IKr 20,000 in Icelandic banknotes and coin, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 1,000. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. ICELAND Ex ch ange rece ip ts a c c ru ing f r om exports must be sur- rende red w i t h o ut u n d ue delay. A ll f ish products are subject to export levies, which are returned to the fishing i n d u s t ry t h r o u gh spec ial f u n d s. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om invisibles mu st be su r rende red w i t h o ut u n d ue de lay. The owners of Icelandic ships and a i rc ra ft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, p e rm i t t ed to r e t a in the ir fo r e ign exchange receipts f r om f r e i g h t, passenger t icke ts, or other charges, and to use them for opera t ing purposes and for purchases of n e c e s s i t i e s. Ice land ic i n s u r a n ce compan ies which re in- su re ab road a re p e rm i t t ed to r e t a in fo re ign exchange ea rned f rom p r em iums and indemn i t ies and to use it to pay re in su rance p rem ium s, c la ims, and other regu lar exp end i tu r es in the coun t ry where the fo re ign exchange was earned. R e s id ent and n o n r e s i d e nt t r av e l e rs m ay b r i ng in IKr 20,000 in Ice land ic bankno tes and coin, in denomi- na t ions not exceeding IKr 1,000. There are no limita- t i o ns on the im p o rt of fo r e ign bankno tes and co in. Capital A ll i n v e s tm e n ts by non re s iden ts in Ice land a re sub- ject to i n d i v i d u al approva l. The pa r t ic ipa t ion by non- res iden ts in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cen t, and is not allowed in the fishing i n d u s t r y. Non re s iden t -owned fo re ign cap i tal en te r ing in the fo rm of fo re ign exchange mu st be surrendered. Non r e s id en ts may be au tho r ized to open non res ident a c coun ts for these f u n d s, in wh ich case the ir r e t r an s f er abroad may be p e rm i t t ed. Res iden ts are obliged to su r render fo re ign exchange a c c r u i ng to them on account of capital transac t ions and paymen t s. W i thout the approval of the Gove rnmen t, res iden ts may not ob ta in loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for f inanc ing impo r ts, for periods exceeding one yea r. App l ica t ions for the con t rac t ing of f inanc ial cred i ts and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on the ir merits and approved only in excep- t ional circumstances. Transfers of capital abroad by residents requ ire approval, which is granted only in excep t ional cases. However, direct inves tment abroad for the purpose of assisting the ma rke t ing of Icelandic products is no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Po r t fo l io inves tment abroad by residents is prohibited. Ou twa rd t r an s f e rs of inher i tances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on the ir mer i ts and are restricted. Nonres iden ts may acqu i re Ice land ic securities and o ther assets w i th impor ted fund s; the t r a n s f er abroad of the proceeds f rom the ir sale requires au tho r iza t ion. Securities held in Iceland by nonres iden ts must be regis- tered, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require Cen tral Bank approval. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face va lue of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not c i rcu la te. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, sub ject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. However, citizens re turn ing to Iceland a f ter residing abroad may freely bring in any gold in the ir possession. Changes during 1978 January 1. The license fee for imports, except for petroleum products, was raised to 1 per cent, and the m in imum was increased to IKr 100. January 1. The license fee on payments for invisibles, except for the provision of tourist exchange, was raised to 1 per cent. The license fee for exchange provided for tou r ism was increased to 1.75 per cent. January 1. The temporary excise tax was changed f rom 18 per cent to 16 per cent ad valorem and was extended to December 31, 1978. The list of goods affected rema ined unchanged. January 5. The list of goods requ i r ing impo rt licenses was modified; rye flour and cube sugar were exemp ted, and used motor veh ic les ( f or t ranspo r t ing passengers on ly) were included. February 10. Following a four-day closure of the exchange market, the exchange rate of the k rona was depreciated by 13 per cent from IKr 220.30 buying, and IKr 220.90 selling, to IKr 253.50 buy ing, and IKr 254.10 selling, respectively, per US$1. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased f rom IKr 75,000 to IKr 90,000 a person, for one t r ip a year. April 19. Tractors, public service vehicles, and trucks w i th a capacity of six or more tons were exempted f rom the 25 per cent customs surcharge. July 1. A 3 per cent import equalization tax was in t roduced on m a n u f a c t u r ed imports. It was to r em a in in operation un t il the end of 1980. September 6. The exchange rate of the krona was depreciated by 15 per cent f rom IKr 259.80 buying, and IKr 260.40 selling, to IKr 305.60 buying, and IKr 306.40 selling, respectively, per US$1. The m a rg in between the Central Bank's official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar was widened f rom IKr 0.60 to IKr 0.80. The exchange allocation for tourist t ravel was increased f rom IKr 90,000 to IKr 215,000 a person, for one t r ip a year. September 9. The effective rates of the temporary excise tax were adjusted to 16 per cent and 30 per cent ad valorem. September 11. A temporary tax of 10 per cent was imposed on the amount of exchange sold to residents for tour ism. October 3. The l im it on the amount of Icelandic banknotes and coin that travelers might take out or b r ing in was increased f rom IKr 14,000 to IKr 20,000. 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the rupee which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 2.25 per cent of the value adopted as the basis.1 Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of Decem- ber 1978 they were Rs 16.45 buying, and Rs 16.55 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase Asian monetary units, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot Asian monetary units and pounds sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to ma in ta in balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies,2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Author- ized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with foreign banks is prohibited. On December 31, 1978 market rates for telegraphic transfers on New York were US$12.42 buying (c lean ), and US$12.18 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$12.2225 buying spot, and US$12.2300, US$12.2300, US$ 12.2300, US$ 12.2350, US$ 12.2400, and US$ 12.2450 buying forward ( for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' delivery, respectively), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to author- ized dealers by purchases of sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second mon th, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 mon th s ), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on 1 W i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 30, 1979 the ma rg ins have been increased to 5 per cent on either side of the middle rate. - Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r i an schillings, Bahrain d inars, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuw a i ti dinars, Malay- sian r ingg i t, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. With e f fect from J anu a ry 1, 1979 the bilateral payments agreement with Bu lgar ia was term ina ted and settlements with t h at coun t ry were placed on a convertible cu r rency basis. any day dur ing the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. In addition, the Bank offers forward cover in these four currencies in respect of exports of specified capital and producer goods, for periods up to ten years from the date of conclusion of the export contract. The Bank also purchases Asian monetary units from authorized dealers, for 3, 6, and 9 months' delivery (extendable up to 12 months in all). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is dele- gated to certain commercial banks, which act as author- ized dealers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the con- tinuance of commercial, industrial, and trading activities in India of companies incorporated abroad, or with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest, or for the estab- l ishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of coun- tries3 and the External Group of countries (all other coun tr ies). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Ind ian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to the Ex ternal Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any coun try in the group or in any permitted currency.4 Receipts f rom the Exter- nal Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Govern- ment of India to the governments of certain foreign 4 All rem i t tances by na t iona ls of the People's Republic of China to any coun t ry outside Ind ia and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whe ther for personal or trade purposes, were stopped w i th effect from November 3, 1962. Consequent upon resump t ion of t rade between India and the People's Republic of Ch ina, rem i t tances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in con fo rm i ty w i th exchange control regulations. A ll nontrade-related transactions w i th the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina con t inue to be prohibited. The prior ap- proval of the Reserve Bank is requ i red for all rem i t tances to Rhodesia. Au tho r ized dealers can effect rem i t tances to Pak is tan on behalf of p r iva te importers as in the case of impor ts f rom other countries; they also may e f fect ce r ta in types of personal rem i t tances in accordance w i th regu la t ions applicable to such remittances; rem i t tances for other purposes r e q u i re the p r ior app roval of the Reserve Bank. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA countries. In addition, payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Nepal (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian mone- tary units through the Asian Clearing Union. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians (with the exception of cer- tain accounts held by persons of Indian nationality who are or have been nonresidents) and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepal as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhuta- nese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organiza- tions in Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign coun- tries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups cor- responding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of coun t r ies ,and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers f rom the nonresident accounts of persons and firms ( inc lud ing b ank s ), provided that both the transferor and the trans- feree accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group, and w i th proceeds f rom sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports and for other paymen ts to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Nonresident (Exter- na l) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payments of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or over- charged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency, or transfers f rom appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of fore ign exchange ten- dered by the account holder du r ing a temporary visit to India; proceeds f rom checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of ma tu r i ty or death 5 However, residents of Nepal ob ta in the ir fo r e ign exchange requ i re- men ts f rom the Nepal Ras tra Bank. 200 claims and the surrender va lue of policies held by non- residents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses f rom a former employer, income tax re funds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits dur ing a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and ma tur i ty proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968; rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder; and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds f rom the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in Ind ia and the repurchase price of units issued by the Un it Trust of India are freely allowed. The former b locked accounts of Ind ian emigrants have been redesig- nated ordinary nonresident accounts. An emigrant's assets in India that are in excess of the remittable amount must be credited to such accounts. Operations on these accounts are now governed by the rules appli- cable to ord inary nonresident accounts. Where the account holder is a foreign national, authorized dealers may credit the sale and ma tur i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with f u n ds held in the account or by rem i t tance f rom abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Ind ian or a fore ign national, may be free ly credited to his account if the shares were sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Ord inary nohresident accounts, ma in ta ined by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin who are resident abroad, may be debited w i thout prior approval for such items as the account holder's and his fam i ly 's expenses during visits to India, up to Rs 3,000 a week; paymen ts for all taxes due f rom the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's Na t ional Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 2,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; and authorized foreign currency remittances or t rans fe rs to nonresident bank accounts. The holder may draw a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annua l ly for any purpose du r ing his stay in Ind ia. Such nonres ident accounts may also be debited free ly for investment in the Public Provident Scheme, 1968, for payment of the passage f a re for the account holder and his fam i ly and dependents for travel to and f rom India; for payment of premiums on L i fe Insurance Corporation policies of the account holder and his dependents; for investments in Ind ian Government secu- rities, in un i ts of the Un it Trust of India, and in immov- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution able property in Ind ia; and also for checks up to Rs 2,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries in India. Other credits and debits requ ire the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted f rom nonresident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms to nonres ident accounts of bank s, un less the amoun ts origi- nally credited to such accounts could have been t rans- ferred abroad. Special regulations cover f u n ds lodged in N a t ion al Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts represent- ing rupee proceeds of inward rem i t tances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds f rom sales of cer t if i- cates issued und er the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in these accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, be freely with- drawn for mak ing any paymen ts in Ind ia or be invested in fixed deposits with authorized dealers and, under certain conditions, in gove rnment securities. The bal- ances held in such accounts of Ind ian na t iona ls may be invested in the Public P rov ident Fund Scheme, 1968, and also for purchase of, or imp rovemen ts on, immova- ble property in Ind ia and, subject to pr ior approval by the Reserve Bank, may be invested in shares of Ind ian companies. Nonresident (E x t e r n a l) Accoun ts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Ind ian nationality or origin resident outside Ind ia. They may be credited with new f u n ds rem i t ted th rough b ank ing channels f rom the coun try of residence of the account holder, or f rom any coun try in the Ex ternal Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency travelers checks, personal checks, and d r a f ts in the name of the account holder, as well as fore ign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder du r ing his stay in India, and with income on author- ized investments. The t r an s f er of f u n ds f rom other Nonres ident (Ex te rna l) Accoun ts or Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts of the same account holder are also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disburse- ments in India and for t rans fer abroad. Debits on account of payment of passage or fa res to and f rom India for the account holder and his dependents, for investment in government securities and un i ts of the Un it Trust of India, and transfers to other Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee travelers checks or travelers letters of credit for the use of the account holder and his f am i ly and dependents. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is trans- ferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt f rom wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Non res iden t) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held in INDIA the f o rm of te rm deposits by persons of Ind ian nation- ality or o r ig in who are resident in the External Group of coun tr ies. These accoun ts may be credited w i th amoun ts received through no rmal b ank ing channels, inc lud ing in te res t, which is f r ee of income tax and wea l th tax. Balances may be repa tr ia ted at any t ime in the currency of denomination, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the pur- poses for which deb i ts to Non re s ident (Ex t e rn a l) Accoun ts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Impor ts and Expor ts (Con t ro l) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Gove rnment to p roh ib i t, res tr ic t, or otherwise control impo r ts. In exercise of its powers under th is Ac t, the Impor ts (Con t ro l) Order, 1955 was issued under which specified articles were made sub ject to controls. Imports f r om Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. There are three types of ind iv idual license, General Currency Area Licenses, Specific Licenses (used for capital goods and other supplies aga inst tied a i d ), and Single Country Licenses (used for certain imports f rom countries with which b i la te ral t rade or paymen ts agreemen ts are in f o r c e ). The Import Policy for 1978-79, which came into effect on Apr il 3, 1978, with its subsequent amendments, contains the regulations covering imports. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for indus- try are classified in to three categories: ( 1) banned, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. All items not included on these lists are free ly available under Open General License (OGL ). Licenses to indus t ry are issued auto- ma t ica l ly on the basis of annual requirements as deter- m ined by past consumption plus 10 per cent. An actual user ( indu s t r i a l) holding an automatic license may impor t, up to a l im it of 10 per cent of the value of the license, such "consumables" (i.e., items required for production but not part of the final product) as are needed for the m anu f a c tu r ing process. The va lue of a single "consumable" item imported under this fac i l i ty may not exceed Rs 50,000. The actual user ( indus tr ia l) may also import, within the va lue of the license, banned items up to a value of Rs 50,000 for each item, pro- vided that the total of all items imported does not exceed 10 per cent of the va lue of the license. Supple- mentary licenses may be obtained in case of need. All licenses to indus try are issued against free foreign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned while other listed goods may be imported under Open General License, subject to certain conditions. For 14 industries and projects capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders irrespective of whether the goods are manufactured in India or not. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain import replenishment (REP) licenses which are valid for importation of 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA banned items necessary for the produc t ion of the par- ticular export product. In addition, REP licenses may be utilized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license permits, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances. The licenses are issued to merchant-exporters, manufacturer-exporters, and export houses and are freely transferab le. Small- scale units are given especially liberal t rea tment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale indus tr ies may form export houses. Non indus tr ial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import requirements of technical and professional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not consumer goods) on Open General License. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make paymen ts by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight d ra f ts. Advance remit- tances before shipping documents can be subm i t ted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods where deposits have to be made with overseas manu fac tu re r s, the Reserve Bank gran ts special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, inc lud ing food- grains, certain oils and fa t s, a number of pharmaceutical products, raw cotton, raw ju te, cashew nuts, most fe r- tilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Government or state trad ing enterprises, the most impor tant of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Ju te Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Author- ity of India Ltd., the State Chemicals and Pharmaceu- ticals Corporation of India (CPC ), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bu lk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center ( IRMAC ). In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obli- gations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; pay- ment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pen- 202 sion f u n d s; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out l ife insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any prof i ts arising f rom the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that cer- ta in conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restric- tions on the rem i t tance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident outside India except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or a f ter Janua ry 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump sum exchange facilities a f ter April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are pe rm i t ted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pak is tan, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,500 a month. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the begin- n ing of the previous calendar year. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the Foreign Travel Scheme is disregarded. Residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equiva- lent on a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. Travel agents, airlines, and steam- ship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for persons holding eligibility certificates issued by designated branches of public sector nation- alized banks. Substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mauritius under the Mauritius Travel Scheme, and to Seychelles, except that the allowance is limited to US$100. The schemes mentioned above do not preclude access to other travel facilities ( for purposes such as business travel or attendance at conferences or seminars, etc.). Foreign exchange for tourist travel, however, is not normally granted except under the schemes men- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tioned above. Travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage or fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business of their company in one of its carriers, are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gu lf ports, and East Africa, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are perm i t ted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign currency, which they brought in (and declared on en t ry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amoun ts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted in to foreign currency and taken out. A foreign travel tax, at a un i fo rm rate of 12.5 per cent on first-class and economy-class fares, is payable where the fare for an in terna t ional jou rney is paid in Indian currency; tickets paid for in fo re ign exchange are exempt f rom the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are requ ired for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported w i thout a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed free ly to all shippers, a few may be exported th rough estab- lished shippers, and a few commodities are subject to export quotas.0 Exports to Nam ib ia (South West A f r ica ), Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhu tan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the f u ll export proceeds will be received and dealt w i th in accordance w i th the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, i n c l u d i ng the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized H The export of ce r ta in commod i t ies, in c lud ing sug a r, raw j u t e, silver, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the s ta te t r a d i ng enterprises. INDIA by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of ship- ment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Paki- stan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some exports, including tea, coffee, groundnuts, car- damom, chromium ore, and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some others, including mica, tobacco, and handwoven woolen carpets, are subject to m in imum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufac tures such as engineering goods, receive cash compensatory support in lieu of nonrefundable taxes and levies. An import replenishment scheme provides preferential import licensing facilities for producers of manu fac tu red goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is, in general, prohibited. How- ever, deck passengers from Bu rma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gu lf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import in to India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount f rom India. Travelers f rom Bu rma, other than deck passengers, may bring in Ind ian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers f rom Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into Ind ia w i thout l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon a r r ival if the va lue of foreign notes, coin, and travelers checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital Inward capital t rans fe rs are, in general, unrestricted, but their subsequent u t i l iza t ion in Ind ia is subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once adm i t ted, are eligible for the same t rea tment that Ind ian enterprises receive. Banks in Ind ia may borrow free ly f rom their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 m i l l ion are utilized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank or in the in te rbank ma rket to finance their no rmal business operations in Ind ia; repayment of such borrowings requ ires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor b ank has no ou t s tand ing borrow ings in Ind ia f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest.7 The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities with a nonresident equity of more than 40 per cent and up to 74 per cent, depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export-oriented production, or in manufac tur ing activi- ties that require sophisticated technology. Foreign com- panies can retain a 51 per cent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, applica- tion of sophisticated technology, and export production account for no less than 60 per cent of their annual turnover, and a minimum of 10 per cent of such turn- over is exported within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophis- ticated technology, and export production account for no less than 75 per cent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain a 74 per cent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of annual turnover, irrespective of core production or technology involved, will also be allowed to operate with 51 per cent nonresident equity, and those which are able to guarantee a higher percentage of exports on a sustained basis would be eligible to operate with a higher percentage of nonresident equity. Companies which export 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predominantly in trading activities, or that do not meet the other criteria listed above, will be required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 per cent within a speci- fied period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria, or wind up their operation in India. In excep- tional cases, companies that do not meet these criteria but have developed skills, expertise, or facilities, or use technologies not indigenously available, may be per- mitted a more than 40 per cent fore ign participation, provided that this does not exceed 74 per cent. Branches 7 Persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or or ig in who are resident abroad may invest f ree ly in any public or p r iva te limited company and in any pa r tne rsh ip or proprietorship concern, irrespective of the na tu re of its ac t iv i t ies, prov ided that the funds required are either rem i t ted from abroad th rough normal bank ing channels or are d rawn f rom the ir Nonresident (E x t e r n a l) Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is g iven t h at repa t r ia t ion of the capital invested or the profits and d iv idends arising the re f rom w i ll not be requested. Nonresident Indians and persons of Ind ian or ig in residing abroad can also invest up to 20 per cent of the new equ i ty capital issued by new companies setting up p e rm i t t ed indu s t r i al projects and up to 74 per cent of new invest- men ts, inc lud ing expansion of existing indus tr ial under tak ings in specified p r io r i ty indus t r ies, and can f ree ly repa t r ia te such investment and income t h e r e f r om a f t er deduc t ion of applicable Ind ian taxes. 204 of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping com- panies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as fo l lows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent, and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding proportions are 33.3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies engaged pre- dominantly in internal trading and commercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the non- resident interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Ind ian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is invo lved ). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or fore ign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, f rom holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable prop- erty outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is invo lved ). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a busi- ness in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Ind ian law, or an Ind ian company with over 40 per cent foreign participa- tion. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities to any place outside India and transferr ing Indian securities to non- residents. Residents are prohibited —except with central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guar- anteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government permission, f rom associating with or par t ic ipa t ing in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects a f ter J anu a ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repa- triated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale which involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not exceeding fou r. The proceeds f rom liquidated foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments not eligible for repa tr ia t ion are kept in a nonresident account. Ind ian nationals are not no rma l ly gran ted any fore ign exchange fac i l i t ies for em ig ra t ion purposes. In cases of exceptional hardsh ip, fo re ign exchange may be released up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100,000 in one l ump sum at the t ime of emigration; the rema inder of the em ig ran t 's assets and income are kept in a non re s ident account and no f u r t h er remittances, i n c l u d i ng pens ions, if any, a re allowed. Foreign na t iona ls who are tempo ra r i ly resident in Ind ia (o ther than na t iona ls of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Pak is tan, Rhodesia, and South A f r i c a) are permitted at the t ime of the ir re t i rement to t r an s f er to the ir own coun tr ies the proceeds f rom the sale of th e ir investments, subject to a l im it of Rs 100,000 for each f am i ly at the t ime of re t i rement and the rema inder in annual ins ta l lmen ts not exceed ing Rs 50,000; in add i- tion, they may t ran s fer all the ir current rem i t tab le assets in Ind ia. There are no res tr ic t ions on the im p o rt i n to Ind ia of Ind i an or fo re ign securities. The acqu is i t ion, sale, t rans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents, other than fo re ign nationals not permanen t ly resident in Ind ia, who are p r iva te per- sons are not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted to pu rchase securities or personal real estate ou ts ide I n d i a. Ind ian na t iona ls res ident abroad and w ish ing to r e t u rn to Ind ia to take up emp loyment or to set up small indu s- t r ial un i ts are upon application exempted, for a period of three years, f rom the requ i rement that any fo re ign currency balances in their possession be surrendered w i th in 30 days of arrival. As an a l te rna t ive to ho ld ing such balances in the fo rm of fo re ign cu r rency, the holder may use the f u n ds for the impo r t, subject to an impo rt license, of equ ipment and capital goods, or, in sma ll amounts, for personal requ iremen ts. Fur thermore, they have the option of surrender ing their balances immed ia te ly, with the r ight to reacquire them w i th in three years in case they decide to re tu rn to a foreign coun try. Balances held in Nonres ident (Ex te rna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Non res iden t) Accounts in Ind ia by such persons on the date of their re turn to Ind ia are also eligible for s im i lar re t rans fer or recon- version facilities. These var ious fac i l i t ies are not ava i l- able in respect of earnings arising f rom emp loyment abroad with any Ind ian-owned organ iza t ion. Under the Re tu rn ing Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Ind ian nationality return- ing to India for permanent settlement on or af ter November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail themselves of fore ign exchange to the extent of 25 per cent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in the ir Nonresident (Ex t e rn a l) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is norma l ly not free ly available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange fac i l i ty INDIA w i t h in a per iod of ten years f rom the da te of re tu rn of the head of the fam i ly. Gold A de ta i led con t rol is exercised over the acqu is i t ion, possession, m a n u f a c t u r e, and disposal of gold th rough the Adm in i s t ra t ion of Gold (Con t ro l) Act. There is a to tal ban on private possession of p r im a ry gold. A l though there is no ban on possession of f in ished articles of gold ( inc lud ing coin) previously declared, there is restriction on the ir m a n u f a c t u re and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acqu is i t ion, disposal, or possession of gold o rnamen ts, except that holdings of such ornamen ts (wh ich may be of any pu r i ty) above specified l im i ts must be declared. The consump t ion of gold by indu s t r ial users is regulated th rough permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and go ldsm i ths through a system of l icens ing. Gold re f in ing is under state managemen t. The Government M int is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of re f in ing and conversion in to s tandard gold bars. Forward t rad ing in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver and p roduc ts of silver are sub ject to quota res tr ic t ions. W i th the exception of jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler, impor ts of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the monetary authorities requ ire special au thor iza t ion f rom the Reserve Bank and are not norma l ly pe rm i t ted; in certain cases, however, jewe lers are perm i t ted to m a n u f a c t u re gold jewelry in bond f rom imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permis- sion for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no fore ign exchange t ran sac t ion is involved or the metals are needed for a par t icu lar purpose. Special permission is also granted in cases where the gold or silver is imported for pro- cessing and re-export, provided that payment for the impo rt will not be required, that the entire quan t i ty of metal imported will be re-exported in the fo rm of jewelry, and that the va lue added will be repatriated to Ind ia in fore ign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry pro- duced in Ind ia for export, and jewelry constituting the personal effec ts of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Under the gold jewelry export replenish- ment scheme introduced in August 1978 for impo r t ing gold against exports of gold jewelry, replenishment of gold used in the m anu f a c tu re of studded gold jewelry of 14 carats or higher pur i ty is allowed, provided a m in imum of 20 per cent has been added to the va lue of the pure gold content in respect of exports under the scheme. The gold imported is canalized through the State Bank of Ind ia. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the Bilateral Account countries is prohibited. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Changes during 1978 January L Transactions between Ind ia and Hunga ry were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. A three-year bilateral trade and paymen ts agreement with Poland came into e f fec t. January 9. The Reserve Bank announced that resi- dents of Ind ia might travel abroad every a l te rna te year under the Foreign Travel Scheme, effec t ive J a n u a ry 1, 1978. February 28. Import du t ies were ad jus ted in the Central Government's budget for 1978/79. The duties on specific capital goods were reduced f rom 40 per cent to 25 per cent; duties on condenser tissue paper, poly- propylene film, and insulation paper were also reduced. The du ty on polyester f i lament ya rn was raised f rom 120 per cent to 200 per cent ad valorem. March L It was announced that under a new t rade agreement concluded on February 3, 1978, all t ransac- tions between India and Nor th Korea would in f u t u re be settled in free ly convertible currency. March 27. The export ban on onions was l i f t e d. April 3. The impor t/ export policy for 1978/79 was announced. The import policy involved ra t iona l iza t ion of the licensing system, liberalization of controls, sim- plification of procedures, and decen t ra l iza t ion of the licensing authority. ( 1) The number of licensing categories was reduced to three, actual users, registered exporters, and export houses; the category of established importers was abolished. The new policy classified local au tho r i t ies, hospitals, educational institutions, research and develop- ment establishments, and centers of higher learn ing, etc. as actual users (non indu s t r i a l ); to a subs tan t ial ex tent such users would be permitted to import their fu ll requirements of technical items. The distinction between private and public sector unde r tak ings was e l im ina ted and that between merchants and manufacturer-exporters in respect of the quantity or na ture of import replenish- ment licenses (REP) was abolished. (2) Imports for actual users were classified into restricted, banned, and canalized items; items not included in these lists would be available under Open General License (OGL ). The issuance of REP licenses would be integrated with that of au toma t ic licenses for actual users, and REP licenses would be available for banned and canalized items that were directly relevant for the production of the particular export produc t; REP licenses would be freely transferable. The need for separate licenses for iron and steel items was elimi- nated and most of such imports would be included under the OGL system which would cover a substan- tially larger number of items than previously. Au toma t ic licenses for actual users would be issued on the basis of past consumption plus 10 per cent for growth and there were provisions for issuance of supp lemen ta ry licenses in case of need. The list of capital goods which might be imported by actual users under OGL was 206 substantially lengthened and, for 14 priority industries and projects, global tenders might be called without reference to domestic availability. The list of items sub- ject to canalization was reduced. ( 3) Among the measures to simplify procedures were the elimination of the need to submit separate letters of au thor i ty to import and to obtain port registration. The issuance of licenses was decentralized; applications for licenses for capital goods would be dealt with on a regional basis up to a value of Rs 1 million (applications for amounts up to Rs 2.5 million would be submitted to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports and for larger amoun ts to the Secretariat for Industrial App rova l ). (4) The export houses would operate mainly as agencies concerned with the small-scale sector. For this purpose they would be granted additional licenses over and above their normal REP entitlements; they would receive REP entitlements at 33.3 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the exports of selected products effective in 1977/78 and manufac tured by the small-scale and cottage industries, against only 5 per cent for other exports. Consortia of small-scale industries were to be given the opportunity of being registered as export houses. To protect the small-scale sector, imports of many items manufac tured by that sector were banned; also, the small-scale sector would be allowed to obtain needed raw materials from agencies hand l ing canalized items at concessionary prices. Licenses for raw materials, components, "consumables," and spare parts would be granted under free foreign exchange; in addition, all imports under OGL would be financed from free foreign exchange. Specially favorable conditions for imports would apply to individuals belonging to scheduled castes/tribes, etc., who wished to establish new small- scale units. Export controls would be exercised on only a few i tems and certain items formerly canalized were decanalized. Most exports would be on OGL. April 5. The Reserve Bank decided to lower the limits on blanket exchange permits in order to make the fac i l i ty available to smaller exporters and construc- tion firms. Also, the m in imum allotment was raised f rom Rs 40,000 to Rs 75,000. April 7. For a range of export items, notably chemi- cals and processed foods, export subsidies were either eliminated or reduced, with effect from July 1, 1978. April 8. The export quota for tea in 1978/79 was raised from 225 million kilograms to 235-240 million kilograms, provided production reached 600 million kilograms. April 13. The structure of cash subsidies for exports of cotton textiles was modified and the subsidies were reduced. April 15. The prohibition on payments arising from trade with the People's Republic of China was with- drawn (following the resumption of trading relations between India and the People's Republic of China, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution excluding Tibet). The People's Republic of China was included in the External Group of countries for the purpose of settling trade obligations. May 3. The Government announced t h at it would permit in exceptional cases cash rem i t tances and con- tributions to rights issues in jo int ventures abroad. May 15. The Government again pe rm i t ted a c tu al users to import banned items of raw ma ter ia ls and com- ponents up to 5 per cent of the face value of their import license. This fac i l i ty had been w i t h d r awn for 1978/79 under the import p rog ram announced on Apr il 3, 1978. May 16. It was announced that jewelers would be permitted to replenish gold that had been used in the m anu f a c tu re of jewelry sold abroad by purchase f rom the State Bank of India which would in t u rn import gold for that purpose. May 18. The facility for the impo rt of household goods and personal effects by re tu rn ing Indians was liberalized. May 19. Import du t ies on specific cap i tal goods were reduced to 25 per cent ad valorem. This was in add i t ion to similar reduc t ions in du ty announced in the Central Government's budget for 1978/79 (see en t ry for Febru- ary 28, above ). May 24. The spot buy ing and se l l ing rates of the rupee in terms of the pound s ter l ing were ad jus ted f r om Rs 15.70 and Rs 15.80, respectively, per £ stg. 1 (set on November 1, 1977) to Rs 15.30 and Rs 15.40, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The fo rwa rd rates f r om one to n ine months were adjusted accord ing ly. Du r ing the course of the year the spot buy ing and selling rates and the forward rates were ad ju s ted on a n um b er of occa- sions. On December 20 the spot ra tes were Rs 16.45 b u y i n g, and Rs 16.55 se l l ing, per <£ stg. 1. June 1. The Reserve B ank delegated add i t ion al powers to au thor ized dealers in respect of paymen ts for com- mission on exports covered by irrevocable le t te rs of cred i t, adve r t is ing expenses (whe re the l im it was raised f r om US$500 to US$1,000 in any ca lendar y e a r ), and sund ry trade-related rem i t tances. Au tho r ized dealers were perm i t ted to effect remittances on account of pri- vate impo r ts up to a l im it of Rs 500 c . i .f. June 3. The decision to cana l ize impo r ts of raw j u te th rough the Ju te Corporation of I n d ia was announ c ed. June 23. The Gove rnment banned the export of raw rubbe r. July 23. Exchange b u r e a us and au thor ized money changers were au thor ized to se ll fo re ign cu r rency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of Rs 200 to all travelers proceeding abroad except to Bang ladesh, B h u t a n, and N ep a l; t rave le rs v i s i t i ng Bang lade sh were e n t i t l ed to R s l O O. July 28. The impo rt rep len ishment f a c i l i ty for ce r ta in export items was restored. This f a c i l i ty had been w i th- d rawn u n d er the policy announ c ed on Ap r il 3 (see above ). In order to p e rm it i n d u s t r i al users to impo rt INDIA "consumables" they would be permitted to add 10 per cent to the va lue of their automatic licenses to cover purchases of these commodities. The scope for import of permissible spare parts was widened by provision for the import of restricted items under OGL. Import of certain other restricted items, including X-ray films, was a l lowed und er OGL. July 28. The import du ty on polyvinyl chloride resin was reduced f rom 100 per cent ad valorem to 60 per cent. July 31. The export du ty on coffee was reduced f rom Rs 500 per 100 kilograms to Rs 200 per 100 kilograms. August 7. The requirement for prior approval on fo rm "P" for travel abroad by residents of India was abolished. Where the cost of passage was to be settled in rupees, however, a dummy "P" form would be necessary. The ceiling on passage fare was abolished. August 17. The import of gold under the gold jewelry export replenishment scheme was canalized th rough the State Bank of Ind ia. August 22. In view of domestic shortages, a ceiling of 0.2 m i l l ion tons was fixed on exports by steel rerolling concerns. August 24. The subsidy to exporters of rubber produc ts was re in troduced with effect from August 11, 1978; it wou ld be based on the d i f fe ren t ial between tax- inc lus ive domestic prices of n a tu r al rubber and the i n t e r n a t i o n al price. September 1. Following the expiry of the rupee trade agreement be tween India and A fghan i s tan, transac t ions w i th A f g h a n i s t an were placed on a convertible currency basis. September 1. The Reserve Bank extended its facilities for fo rwa rd purchases of U.S. dollars f rom up to 6 months to up to 12 months. The forward margins on sterling transactions were raised slightly. The Reserve Bank limited to 1 mon th the authorized dealers' facility for forward delivery of sterling and U.S. dollars against spot purchases of these currenc ies from their overseas branches and for correspondents. The Reserve Bank extended the scope of the long-term forward cover scheme (in operation since 1974) to inc lude additional engineering items. September 7. The export d u ty on tea was reduced f rom Rs 5 a k i logram to Rs 2 a k i logram. The export du ty on coffee was raised f rom Rs 200 per 100 kilograms to Rs 400 per 100 kilograms. September 14. A f u r t h er l ibe ra l iza t ion of impo rt policy was announced. Import replenishment for elec- t ron ic i tems was sub s tan t ia l ly increased and special impo rt fac i l i t ies were in t roduced for small-scale un i ts. Rubb er impor ts wou ld be pe rm i t ted aga inst exports of rubber products. October 5. Au tho r i z ed dealers were p e rm i t t ed to open le t ters of c red it in a conve r t ib le cu r rency aga inst impo r ts f r om Pak is tan, subject to no rmal exchange control r egu l a t ions be ing observed. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA October 26. The prohibition of import and export trade with the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China was abolished; however, border trade remained prohibited. November 10. The cash assistance scheme due to expire on March 31, 1979 was extended by three years. The list of items subject to assistance would be reviewed by the Ministry of Commerce. November 11. The concessional customs du ty of 25 per cent was extended to additional imports of machinery for the garment industry and for the leather processing and finishing industry. The concessional duty of 45 per cent was extended to certain raw materials for the electronics industry when used in the manufac- tu re of specified electronic components. December 5. The Governments of India and Bulgaria concluded a new trade agreement, effective January 1, 1979, under which all trade and payments transactions between the two countries would be settled in freely convertible currencies. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Indonesia is the Indones ian Rup iah. On November 16, 1978 the exchange rate of the rup iah was adjusted f rom R p 4 15 per US$1 to Rp 625 per US$1, and the l ink with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was severed. Since that date Bank Indonesia has set the middle rate each day using a basket of cur- rencies of Indonesia's main t rad ing par tners as one of the variables. Transactions in the Jaka r ta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates w i th in 1 per cent either side of the middle rate of the rup iah; on Decem- ber 31, 1978 the buying and selling rates were Rp 619.0 and Rp 622.5, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Jaka r ta Bourse for the U.S. dol- lar and rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Jaka r ta Foreign Exchange Bourse da i ly calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized fore ign exchange banks, nonbank f inan- cial ins t i tu t ions, and licensed fore ign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the fore ign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a par t icu lar rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the M in is t ry of Trade and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Finance, authorized for- eign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Exporters' licenses are issued by the offices of the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives offices in provincial capitals. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,2 but the Indonesian rup iah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are norma l ly effected in converti- 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's in terna t ional transactions, i.e., Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Malaysian r ingg i t, * Netherlands gu i lde rs, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 With the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain auto- mob i les is app l icab le also in Sabang. ble currencies. Export proceeds must be received in specified currencies.3 Indonesia has no operative pay- men ts agreements.4 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign na t iona ls of accounts in Indonesia in rup iahs or foreign currencies w i th authorized fore ign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on fore ign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to effect a w i thdrawa l, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an in i t ial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968 only Indonesian nationals may obtain an impor ter's license, but certain established fore ign firms have retained their licenses and new foreign investors can ob ta in an importer's license restricted to the import of ma ter ia ls requ ired for their own projects. Imports f rom Angola, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, as are imports f rom all sources of any secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include bu i l t -up sedans and station wagons; com- ponents for the assembly of luxu ry automobiles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; rad io and tele- vision sets in bu i l t-up or semiknocked-down condition; bu i l t -up air conditioners, refrigerators, and electric sew- ing machines; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium g lu tama te; mattresses; certain types of cotton ya rn; and specified types of textiles, automobile tires, batteries, pr in ted matter, office supplies, an imal traps, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. Imports of cloves, fertilizer, rice, ref ined sugar, and wheat and wheat flour are restricted to specified approved importers. Imports of certain commodities for the "basic national stockpile" are reserved for state enterprises; these currently include cemen t, newsprint, certain types of paper, automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving yarn, sheet iron, re inforc- ing steel, raw materials for mar i t ime industries, and pharmaceutical raw materials. No licenses are required for imports. In principle, all permitted imports may be paid for either with general exchange (Devisa Umum) or aid exchange (Devisa INDONESIA the coun t ry of o r ig in a n d / or donor depend ing on country. Sight bankers' letters of credit are requ i red for most private sector imports w i th* the exception of parcel imports, goods b rought in by t rave le rs of a v a l ue not exceeding US$100, impo r ts specifically authorized by the M in is try of Trade and Cooperatives or by the Invest- ment Coordinating Board in the case of goods cons t i tu t- ing part of a fore ign inves tmen t, and those specific cases in which usance le t ters of credit and af ter-s ight letters of credit (180 days' deferred paymen t) may be allowed. A rup iah deposit of 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of cred it must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a sight-letter of credit is opened for imports f inanced with aid exchange; for imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when they subm it applications for letters of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the ba lance upon receipt of the documen ts, upon arrival of the goods, or within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for nongovernment imports f inanced with aid exchange is left to the discretion of the authorized bank if the latter purchases aid exchange forward f rom Bank Indonesia. Import duties, which are almost w i thout exception ad valorem, are imposed on "check" prices (indicative prices) de term ined by the Ministers of Trade and Cooperatives, Indus try, and Finance on the recommen- dation of a Check Price Team. These prices are set to reflect c.i.f. prices and are changed when prices abroad d i f fer by more than 10 per cent from the check prices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import du ty. Items which are exempt f rom import duties are also exempt f rom sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank- notes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemorative coin (see section on Gold, be low). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper ( f rom Java and M a d u r a ); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian Jaya ); iron scrap; and steel scrap ( f rom Java, Madura, and Suma t ra ). Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are con- trolled by means of quotas, in order to ma in ta in supplies 210 to meet domestic demand; these inc lude fertilizers, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, salt, wheat flour, paper, asphalt, sugar, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, and meat. The prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is ter of Trade and Cooperatives is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona ba rk, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver, an t iques of cu l tu ral va lue, and all goods produced f rom subsi- dized raw materials. Otherwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state t r ad ing f i rm s. Certain export transactions may be settled under usance letters of credit. Otherwise, all exporters except ce r ta in m in ing companies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must requ ire their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. The exporter must surrender the fu ll foreign exchange va lue prior to shipment if there is no banker's letter of credit.5 For the principal export commodities other than petroleum, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives. The fu ll proceeds f rom exports other than pe tro leum, products of certain m in ing companies, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" t rade rs are subject to surrender (except in "border-crossing" trade; see below). Exports of copra cake, sawn timber, hides, rubber, coffee, pa lm kernels, palm oil, pepper, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 per cent tax, and the major mineral products and unsawn timber to a 10 per cent tax. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" t rade with Malaysia, the value of import or export shipments must not exceed M$600 a month, if trans- ported overland, and M$600 a shipment, if transported by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rup iah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single tr ip if transported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of Janua ry 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presidential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, and by two Presidential Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977. In principle, such investments may be unde r taken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the Investment Coor- d ina t ing Board (BKPM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a 5 There are separa te a r r ang em en ts for exports of orchids. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution maximum of 30 years. Among the inducemen ts offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer profits ( a f t er settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indone s ia) and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances a f ter the expiration of the tax holiday f rom corporation tax. The law pro- vides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit f r om tax relief; at present, however, foreign paymen ts do not require a t rans fer permit. The exploration and develop- ment of petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding non- guaranteed claims against Indonesia. Rup iahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two k inds of DICS- Rup iah Accounts, A and B, the former re la t ing only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Pr iva te creditors w i l l ing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make inves tmen ts under the Foreign Cap i tal Inves tment Law of 1967 are paid in rup iahs in settle- ment of the ir claims. These claims are t ran s fe rab le to other po ten t ial investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DICS rup iahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects th at have been approved und er the Foreign Capital Inves tment Law of 1967, for the purchase of fore ign exchange for the impo rt of equ ip- ment and raw ma te r ia ls necessary for the es tab l ishment and operation of those projects. There are no l im i ta t ions on the r em i t t an ce to Indo- nesia of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonres iden ts may hold fore ign currency deposits w i th fore ign exchange banks. However, fore ign exchange banks, n o n b a nk f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, and private companies are sub ject to Bank Indones ia d irec t ives w i th respect to borrow ing ab road, the acceptance of deposits f rom nonres iden ts, and the issuance of cer t if ica tes of deposit to nonres iden ts. A 15 per cent reserve requ i rement is applicable to the fo re ign currency liabilities of fo re ign exchange banks; no deposit requ iremen ts are app l icab le to the fore ign borrowings of nonbank financial in s t i tu t ions or p r iva te companies. Certain bo r row ing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indones ia, and all fore ign borrow ing is subject to repor t ing to Bank Indonesia a n d / or the M in i s t ry of Finance. The p r ior approval of the M in is ter of F inance is requ ired before any pub l ic en te rp r ise or pub l ic sector body may accept a loan f r om abroad. Indones ian citizens and res iden ts of fo r e ign n a t i o n- a l i ty may f ree ly t ran s fe r, nego t ia te, impo r t, and export secur i t ies denom ina ted in rup iahs or in fo re ign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemo ra t ive gold coins, which are legal tender. Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, INDONESIA hold, and sell gold and gold coin in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person, and gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require prior notification to the M in is try of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1978 January 1. A preferential du ty of 10 per cent came in to effect for imports of certain goods grown or manu- fac tured in member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN ). Among the items were some cereals, tires and tubes, paper products, and electrical and mechanical components. January 1. It was announced that the export and impo rt of certain commodities, to be determined by the M in is ter of Trade and Cooperatives, might be e f fec ted under usance letters of credit. January 10. The M in is ter of Trade and Cooperatives announced a list of commodities, inc lud ing ba t ik items and tea, which could be exported und er usance letters of credit. January 26. The export of 14 species of t imber was banned w i th e f fect f rom May 1, 1978, except for exports of ebony, which were banned w i th effect from Feb- ru a ry 1, 1978. In some cases, the ban would be enforced on semifinished products as well as logs, to s t imu la te the growth of local industry. February 25. The M in is t ry of Finance announced a 50 per cent reduc t ion in import du ty and sales tax on impo r ts of raw ma te r ia ls for adhesive tapes, trans- pa rency film, and copying machine components, retro- active to November 26, 1977. March 2. The impo rt of goods on the basis of a f te r- sight paymen ts, i.e., payab le no more than 180 days a f t er sh ipmen t, was pe rm i t ted; the goods which might be impo r ted by means of such letters of credit included raw ma te r ia ls, cap i tal goods, and impo r tant rep lacement par ts. In add i t ion, se t t lement of ce r ta in export transac- t ions und er usance letters of credit was pe rm i t ted. May 19. A h igher impo rt du ty su rcha rge was imposed on w rought a l um i n um products. May 23. An impo rt du ty and sales tax surcharge was lev ied on impo r ts of c iga re t te paper. June 2. A total exemp t ion f rom impo rt du ty and impo rt sales tax was announced in respect of the raw ma te r ia ls, mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and spare pa r ts neces- sary to b u i l d, repa ir, and m a in t a in ships w i th the excep- t ion of p leasure boats and yach ts. (The exemption was ex tended to pleasure boats and yachts on J u ne 19.) June 7. A to tal exemp t ion f rom impo rt d u ty and sales tax was gran ted in respect of s i lver, metallized y a rn of gold and s i lver, and re f ined copper. An impo rt 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA duty and sales tax surcharge was imposed on revolvers, pistols, and hunting guns. September 1. Tariff reductions were announced on 138 imports from ASEAN countries, under the ASEAN Preferential Trading Arrangement. The commodities included powdered milk, lubrication oils, chemicals, synthetic leather, piston engines, carpets, telephones, cameras, radios, and television sets. To qualify, imports must have at least 60 per cent by value of local content (i.e., single country content) or a minimum of 60 per cent of components of ASEAN origin (i.e., ASEAN con ten t). September 20. The list of imported goods on which deferral of payment for up to 180 days might be granted was enlarged (see entry for March 2, above). Among the additional items were organic chemicals, yarns and fabrics, iron and steel products, spare parts for textile machinery, fa rm tractors, and forklifts. November 15. With effect f rom November 16 the rupiah was devalued against the U.S. dollar by 33.6 per cent from R p 4 15 per US$1 to Rp 625 per US$1. At the same time, the link to the U.S. dollar was severed and the rupiah was linked to a basket of currencies of Indonesia's major trad ing partners. It was announced, however, that the basket would be only one of the vari- ables used in establishing the exchange rate. November 15. New customs regulations were issued allowing a 50 per cent reduction in the effective import duty and import sales tax rates for imports of raw materials and complementary goods used in domestic production. A total exemption from import duties, import sales tax, and the withholding tax on import transactions (MPO) was granted on imports of raw materials and certain other goods used for the manu- fac ture of export products. December 11. It was announced by the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives that exports of certain domes- tically produced commodities would be controlled by means of quotas, in order meet domestic demand. The commodities included fertilizers, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, salt, wheat flour, paper, asphalt, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, and meat. December 13. The advance import deposit require- ment, advance financial guarantee deposit, and advance payment of import duty, which had been required since January 1, 1977 for most varieties of textiles, polyester fibers, reinforcing steel, and gunny bags, were revoked. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 82.2425 = SDR 1. Iran ma in- tains exchange rates for the rial w i th in a target zone above and below the fixed central rate; these target zones are based on the relative pu rchas ing power of the rial vis-a-vis that of the currencies of Iran's ma jor trad ing partners and other basic under ly ing economic conditions. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1978 the o f f ic ial rates of the Central Bank (B ank Markazi I r a n) for the U.S. dollar, the only cu r rency that is officially quoted, were Rls 70.35 buy ing, and Rls 70.60 selling, per US$1. The Cen tral Bank also publishes daily exchange rates for 12 other currencies l for the purpose of ca lcu la t ing import reg is tra t ion fees and import duties; these rates are based on the o f f ic ial rates for the U.S. dollar and the London market rates for the cur- rencies concerned. There is a dual exchange ma rke t, cons is t ing of an off ic ial rate ma rket (or commercial m a rk e t) w i th f ixed U.S. dollar rates, and a noncommercial market with fluctuating rates. Both ma rke ts operate w i th in the bank ing system. The Central Bank stands ready to purchase f rom the commercial bank s, at official ra tes, any foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports of goods and services. Import paymen ts must in principle be settled in the official rate market. Also settled at official rates are certain authorized current payments, inc lud ing basic allocations for travel, study, and medical treat- ment abroad and, on the supp ly side, any export pro- ceeds and other cu r rent receipts converted by public sector agencies (including the National Iran ian Oil Company ). Transactions over c lear ing accounts denom i- na ted in U.S. dollars are in all cases settled at the official buy ing and selling rates. The sales of all foreign exchange in the official rate marke t, w i th some minor exceptions, are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds f rom exports other than petroleum, petroleum products, and na tu ral gas, as well as the proceeds from exports of services, may be sold either in the official or in the noncommercial marke t. All other payments and receipts are settled at the non- commercial market rate. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued annually by the M in is try of Commerce a f ter being approved by the Council of Ministers. Foreign trade relations with the Republic of China are under the control of the Na t ional I ran ian Trading Corporation within the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the ten countries with which Iran has bilateral payments ag reemen t s2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the Ge rman Democratic Republic, and North Korea must be conducted through accounts denomi- nated in I ran ian rials. Settlements with Mexico may optionally be made through a clearing account denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the other mem- ber countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bang ladesh, B u rm a, Ind i a, Nepa l, Pak is tan, and Sri L ank a) in respect of current transactions (o ther than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their produc ts) may be effected in Asian mone ta ry un i ts or in the currency of a coun t ry that is a par ty to the individual contract. Payments to and f rom Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and pe tro leum p roduc ts, and defense ma ter ia ls) are settled over c lear ing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Settlements with other countries nor- ma l ly are settled in the quoted currencies (see foot- note 1 ). Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts free ly, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used both for payments in Iran and for conversion into foreign cur- rencies th rough the noncommercial market. Foreign na t iona ls as well as Iran ian physical or juridical persons may ma in ta in sight or time deposits in foreign curren- cies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat- ing in Hong Kong. All imports into Iran are subject to control. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, con- sisting of goods whose importation is considered essen- tial are divided into two main categories: imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 2 A lban ia, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN government agencies,3 and imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the Ministry of Commerce) before the import order may be placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose importation is not considered essential, inc lud ing goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted f rom the "author- ized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports of "authorized" goods without payment through the official rate market require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. However, these imports are permitted without limita- tion, provided that registration is made before the order is placed. Such imports up to US$5,000 are permitted without prior registration but are subject to a registration fee; paymen ts may be made either through the official rate or the noncommercial exchange marke t. In addition, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable ins t i tu t ions or government organi- zations; machinery; spare parts and raw or inter- mediate materials for productive entities, up to US$1,000 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$300 a shipment. Imports on this basis are exempt f rom the import registration deposit. Imports of gifts, whether of "authorized" or "unauthorized" commodities, are restricted to Rls 20,000 a person a year. Specified commodities, such as cigarette paper, sugar, tobacco, and wheat are imported under state monopoly. Payments may be made either against bills for col- lection or documen tary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without prior authorization for goods (ma in ly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 9292 of September 17, 1978. Payments for imports of other goods may also be made against bills for collec- tion without prior permission f rom the Central Bank, provided that the bills are settled within nine months. All orders for imports must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. At the time of registration of imports, a fee of 1 per cent of the amount of the import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate, is collected by authorized banks. Imports brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran are exempt from the fee. For some goods, importers must lodge with the Central Bank, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value; this is done at the t ime of registration. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral expor t / import list for countries with which Iran has bilat- eral trade and payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Commerce. 214 the registration deposit. The deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Central Bank may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category and vice versa. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial benefit tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benef it taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before cus- toms clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank, specifying that pay- ment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the noncommercial market. In addition, there are certain allocations at the official rate for travel, study, and medical treatment abroad. Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange is not granted to exporters for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance premiums, although reinsurance premium payments are permitted. Author- ized banks are permitted to remit interest on importers' suppliers' credit not exceeding 8.5 per cent; higher interest rates require special permission from the Central Bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assist- ants, whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government, may remit at the official rate about 50 per cent of their net salaries; any additional amounts may be remitted through the noncommercial market. The basic travel allowance for Iranian and foreign nationals —the equivalent of Rls 200,000 a person a trip —may be made available by authorized banks at the official rate upon presentation of a valid passport and an exit permit; each accompanying mem- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution her of the passport holder's fam i ly is entitled to the same allowance, and there is no limit on the number of times a person may avail himself of this facility. Addi- tional funds for personal or business travel may be purchased freely in the noncommercial market. Banks may sell, at the official rate, up to the equivalent of Rls 200,000 a person to Iranian nationals traveling or residing abroad, for medical treatment; additional foreign exchange can be obtained at the official rate against medical bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad. Iranian physical and juridical persons may freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources abroad, inc lud ing export proceeds; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Iranian nationals leaving the coun try are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 20,000 for each single-journey exit permit. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage travel. For family members traveling on the same pass- port (wife, and children from 7 to 18 years of age), the rate is Rls 5,000 a person. I ran ians resident abroad and students s tudy ing abroad but v is i t ing home tem- porarily are exempt from the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take w i th them Rls 20,000 in I ran ian bankno tes. Travelers of foreign na t iona l i ty may not export fo re ign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amoun ts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert up to Rls 50,000 in to other cur- rencies at the official rate, upon presentation of the ir visaed passport, and may free ly convert any add i t ional amount in the noncomme rc ial ma rke t. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities requ i re licenses. The commercial benef it tax and customs du ty charged at the time of import of raw ma te r ia ls con ta ined in m a n u f a c t u r ed goods for export may be returned to the exporter a f t er the export has taken place. Certain m inor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The Cen tral Bank offers p re fe ren t ial dis- count facilities for export bills. The foreign currency proceeds of commodities other than petroleum, petroleum products, and na tu ral gas may be re ta ined abroad; if they are repa t r ia ted, they may be kept as foreign currency deposits w i th domestic banks or sold to the b ank ing system either in the commercial market or in the noncommercial marke t. Authorized banks norma l ly accept export proceeds only in U.S. dollars and other quoted currencies (see foo tno te 1 ), but they are pe rm i t ted to accept other currenc ies at the ir discretion. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a fore ign currency account w i th an authorized bank, IRAN where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes; higher amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The repatriation of Iranian bank- notes through the mail also requires approval from the Central Bank. Capital Iran ian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Private outward transfers of capital may be made through the noncommercial market, irrespective of their purpose. Retransfer abroad of foreign capital at the official selling rate is permitted with Central Bank approval, provided that the inflow had been specifically authorized by, and registered with, the Central Bank. Authorized banks may freely accept inflows of foreign exchange f rom abroad (both deposits and borrowings) and may lend the foreign currency to residents or sell it in the noncommercial market for rials; the rial counter- part may be lent to residents, but such lending is subject to the applicable credit ceilings. The net short-term fo re ign l iab i l i t ies of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requ i rement of 20 per cent. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regu la t ions imp lemen t ing the law, fore ign capital invested in approved development or productive activi- ties in indus t ry, m in ing, agriculture, or transport may be repa tr ia ted, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the imp lemen t ing regu la t ion s ), in the fo rm of foreign exchange a n d / or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official rate market selling rate prevailing on the date of t ran s fe r. However, the Central Bank has the option of buy ing the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mu tua l ly agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to any repatriation of the funds. Capital imported under this law in the form of foreign exchange mu st be in currencies acceptable to the Cen- tral Bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the b u y i ng ra te preva i l ing on the date of application for conversion. All conversions must take place in the o f f ic ial ra te ma rket ( c a p i t a l, p ro f i ts and d iv idends, amo r t iza t ion, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds). Foreign partici- pa t ion in domestic enterprises is subject to ceilings. In inves tment areas with special technological requirements, fo re ign pa r t ic ipa t ion is l im i ted to 35 per cent. In sectors with lower technological requ iremen ts the ceiling is less than 35 per cent. However, in newly founded joint ownership companies, the fore ign par tner may apply for a higher share in ownership for up to five years, unless he immed ia te ly l im i ts his share to the legal max imum. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Gold No Iranian gold coins are legal tender.4 Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in Iran, and there is a free market for both metals. Authorized banks may import and export gold and silver (bullion only, which for gold must be at least 995/1000 fine) with prior approval of the Central Bank against settlement through the official rate market, and may sell these metals to any person in Iran. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Central Bank, while the import for industrial and dental use is effected by professional organizations, at the official rate and subject to supervision by the Cen- tral Bank. The Central Bank accepts gold bullion on deposit from domestic banks as well as nonbank resi- dents and issues gold certificates against such deposits. Travelers may freely import and export gold bullion up to 1 kilogram a person a trip; the Central Bank is empowered to approve larger quantities. The export of Iranian gold coins for num isma t ic purposes requires prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports of gold are free from customs du ty but are subject to a commercial benefit tax of 5 percent and an import registration fee of 1 per cent. Bank Melli Iran and other commercial banks give daily quotations for domestic sales. Changes during 1978 March 21. New export-import regulations for 1978/79 increased commercial benefit taxes on a large number of imports, including synthetic yarns ( f rom Rls 5 to Rls 30 a k i log ram ), synthetic textiles ( f rom Rls 50 to Rls 80 a k i log ram ), cotton textiles ( f r om Rls 70 to Rls 90 a k i logram), textile fibers ( f r om Rls 5 to Rls 30 a k i log r am ), tires and tubes ( f rom Rls 5 to Rls 10), china, tableware, and ceramic pottery ( f r om Rls 40 to Rls 60 a k i log ram ), lamps ( f rom 40 per cent to 140 per cent of va lue ), pumps and compressors ( f rom 5 per cent to 10 per cent of v a l u e ), insulated electric wires and cables ( f rom Rls 10 to Rls 30 a k i log r am ), and jeeps with two differentials and with a carrying 4 Article 2 ( d) of the Mone ta ry and Bank ing Act proh ib i ts the use of gold coin as legal tender. capacity of 9-12 persons (from 20 per cent to 50 per cent of va lue ). Items on which commercial benefit taxes were reduced included glassware and bottles ( f rom Rls 100 to Rls 10 a kilogram) and certain types of pump compressors ( f rom 25 per cent to 15 per cent of value). Imports which became subject to such taxes in 1978/79 included certain construction materials of cement (25 per cent of value) and plastic and plastic pipes (Rls 17 a kilogram). March 29. An Imperial Decree implementing the amendment to the Development and Public Credits Guarantee Law raised the tax on travel abroad by Iranian nationals f rom Rls 10,000 to Rls 20,000 a trip. The tax on each additional member of a family travel- ing on the same passport was raised f rom Rls 2,000 to Rls 5,000. April 1. The margins around the fixed relationship be- tween the Iranian rial and the SDR were widened f rom 2.25 per cent to 7.25 per cent. July 22. It was announced that Iran would no longer maintain margins of 7.25 per cent on either side of the fixed Iranian rial-SDR rate. Henceforth, Iran in tended to confine exchange rates for the rial within a target zone above and below the fixed rate. November 8. Private foreign exchange transfers were limited to US$4,000 a year except for students, pilgrims, and persons traveling abroad for medical reasons. November 14. The Central Bank terminated its sup- port of the noncommercial foreign exchange market by d iscon t inu ing sales of U.S. dollars to match supply with demand for foreign exchange in that market. Simul- taneously, the banks were notified that certain payments for invisibles could be settled in the official rate market, as follows: payments for services based on contracts between domestic and foreign institutions; payments for fore ign loans and credits; profits of foreign transporta- tion companies; reinsurance premiums; dividends on shares held by foreign shareholders in insurance com- panies and banks; and sales of foreign exchange for travel (up to Rls 200,000 a pe rson ), for study (up to Rls 70,000 a m o n t h ), and for medical treatment for Iran ian nationals abroad (in accordance with the cost in cu r r ed ). 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.3778. The official buy ing and selling rates on December 29, 1978 were US$3.394678 and US$3.377778, respectively, per ID 1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq under takes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this au tho r i ty is executed through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain approval au tho r i ty to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless other- wise authorized by the Board of Adm in is tra t ion. All branches of the Raf ida in Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is de term ined by the Council for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, inc lud ing an import pro- gram, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies. Transactions permitted in the listed currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. There are no bilateral paymen ts arrangements. Pay- ments to and receipts f rom Israel, Rhodes ia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonres ident account requ i res the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- dent accounts are divided into o rd ina ry non res ident accounts, which arise f rom transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Iraqi nationals who have been working abroad for at least a year or who become residents a f ter having been nonresidents may open accounts in fore ign currencies with banks in Iraq and credit these with up 4 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Italian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, No rweg ian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. to 50 per cent of their fore ign savings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, inc lud ing impor ts for the holder's personal use, impor ts of certain capital goods, or mee t ing expend i tu res abroad for travel, medical t rea tmen t, and s tudy purposes; pay- ments f rom these accounts up to the equ iva lent of ID 500 a year do not require the Central Bank's approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of many commodities, inc lud ing ju t e, sugar, tea, edible oil, certain medical supplies, mach ine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopo ly. All private imports are subject to licenses except those for development projects benef i t ing f rom Law No. 157 of 1973; in principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program, but some impor ts take place outside the program. Imports of all goods f rom Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. All impo r ts f rom Hong Kong are regulated. Imports of some com- modities on a protection list are, in principle, prohibited f rom all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of any supp lemen tary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. Regu la t ions de te rm in ing the incidence of this tax are issued annua l ly. To f inance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 0.75 per cent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import du ty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty. The Ra f ida in Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments f rom fore ign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above), all payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank is per- mitted to transfer up to 50 per cent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit to 75 per cent, subject to the approval of the Central Bank. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist and business travel of ID 300 a trip for each person 12 years of age or over (ID 150 for children under 12), for trips of a month or less to Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey; for trips of over a month the allow- ance is increased to ID 400 (ID 200 for children under 12), and for subsequent trips in the same calendar year 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ these allowances are reduced to 50 per cent or more of the basic allowance. For travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 12 years of age or over for trips not exceeding one month, ID 600 for longer trips, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent trips in the same calendar year. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are pe rm i t ted to take out the equivalent of ID 300 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 150 for persons over 5 and under 12). On leaving the country, Iraqi nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 10, except when traveling to Gulf coun- tries or the Syrian Arab Republic or on official business. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Council for the Regulation of Trade has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organization for Exports. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters generally must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank and to surrender them within six months after shipment. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding I r a n ), India, and Pakistan are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. The extent of finan- cial support may not exceed 25 per cent of the value of the goods, and commodities whose import content exceeds 40 per cent are ineligible. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank; such deposits may be con- 218 verted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. The transfer of profits (net of income tax) f rom foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trad ing companies, to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies, and to 50 per cent of total profit for service companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvest- ment of profits in excess of the transferable percentage. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations and interest payments are not subject to ceilings. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval; such transfers are severely restricted. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in con- vertible currency freely through the Rafidain Bank for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible cur- rency. Similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals to bring in convertible currency through the Rafidain Bank and deposit the funds in foreign currency accounts, balances in which are freely transferable abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), certain incentives and guarantees may be granted to approved investments of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign- owned firms must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. The Rafidain Bank has a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1978 November 9. It was announced that foreign enter- prises wishing to engage in business in Iraq must be registered with the Ministry of Planning. After Janu- ary 1, 1979 all activities by unregistered enterprises would be prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound, which is pegged at par to the pound sterling and transactions in sterling are free of commissions.1 Daily quotations in the Irish foreign exchange market are based on the equivalent buying and selling rates for the pound sterling in London. On December 29, 1978 the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.0420 and US$2.0400, respectively, per <£Ir. 1. Forward transactions between authorized banks and their customers must have an underlying commercial transaction. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approv ing normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries if they are agr icu l tural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The adm in is tra t ion of Irish exchange control is based on the d is t inc t ion between entities that are permanen t ly resident in Ireland and nonresidents, i.e., residents of other countries. The latter comprises four categories: ( 1) residents of the United Kingdom, (2) residents of EEC member countries, ( 3) residents of Rhodesia,2 and (4) residents of all other countries. Authorized payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds f rom an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are desig- nated External Accounts. All credits in excess of 1 W i th effect f r om Ma rch 13, 1979 I re land pa r t ic ipa tes in the exchange ra te mechanism of the European Mone ta ry System. - Paymen ts by Ir ish residents to Rhodesia, to the accounts of Rho- desian residents w i th I r i sh banks, and for settlement of t rade trans- actions invo lv ing Rhodes ia and of financial t ransac t ions invo lv ing Rhodesian dollars are subject to separate regu la t ions. All such trans- actions and other transactions (e.g., for t ravel or em ig r a t ion) involving Rhodesia or Rhodesian residents mu st be re fe r red to the Cen tral Bank. <£Ir 50,000 to nonbank external accounts require specific approval by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland, and there are limits on max imum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks which may be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. There are two types of External Accounts: External Accounts in the names of residents of countries other than the United Kingdom (External Accounts —non-U.K.) and External Accounts in the names of U.K. residents (External Accounts —U.K.). External Accounts—non-U.K. may be credited with payments that are eligible for transfer to countries other than the United Kingdom, transfers from other External Accounts —non-U.K., transfers from External Accounts —U .K. under U.K. exchange control approval, pay- ments for any foreign currencies purchased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes in denomi- nations not exceeding £ I r20, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Accounts, both U.K. and non-U.K., the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the t rans fer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. External Accounts—U.K. may be credited with pay- ments that are eligible for transfer to the United King- dom, transfers f rom other External Accounts, both U.K. and non-U.K., payments for any sterling purchased f rom account holders, payments for any foreign cur- rency, other than sterling, purchased f rom account holders under U.K. exchange control approval, the proceeds of Irish currency notes of denominations not exceeding <£ Ir 20 or sterling notes, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents or to residents of the United Kingdom, trans- fers to other Ex ternal Accounts —U.K., t rans fe rs to Ex te rnal Accounts —non-U.K. under U.K. exchange control approval, the cost of any foreign currency other than sterling sold to account holders under U.K. exchange control approval, transfers to the United King- dom in Irish pounds or sterling of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if appli- cable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency provided that, in the case of U.K. residents, approval has been granted by the U.K. exchange control authorities; they may also operate fore ign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific Central Bank approval. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhode- sia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. The import from other sources of certain goods into Ireland is subject to three types of administrative control, as follows: Quantitative Restriction. —Special quota restrictions apply to (1) cycle tires from countries other than member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile products originating in the state-trading countries; (3) automobile tires from the German Democratic Republic; (4) footwear from the Republic of China and Czechoslovakia, and (5) certain sacks and bags other than of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (mainly jute bags originating in the Republic of China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia. Voluntary Restraint.—The EEC has negotiated bilat- eral restraint agreements with various supplying coun- tries on trade and textiles under which import quotas are set each year for different products. (Autono- mous import restrictions have been imposed by the EEC on the Republic of Ch ina .) Ireland also has a vo lun tary restraint agreement with Poland in regard to certain footwear. Surveillance. —Ireland operates a system of import surveillance over certain footwear f rom all sources and for imports of certain clothing and textiles and binder- twine f rom non-EEC sources. Under the third type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC coun- tries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock products. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permis- sion to credit Irish pounds to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are requ ired for import paymen ts exceeding <£ Ir 10,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make paymen ts for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for resi- dents of Ireland of <£Ir 500 a person for each trip, or 220 where the trip exceeds two months, <£Ir 1,000. For business travel, up to <£Ir 3,000 at a rate of <£Ir 100 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also estab- lished for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than <£Ir 500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to <£Ir 100 in Irish cur- rency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited at present except under license. The export to South Africa of arms, ammunition, military equipment, and vehicles is also prohibited. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if their value exceeds <£Ir 100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding <£Ir 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return f rom a trip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all trans- fers of capital to nonresidents. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emigration is <£Ir 40,000 for each fam i ly. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds <£ Ir 40,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., f rom the date of departure f rom Ireland. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported without limit. For Irish residents taking up pe rmanent residence in an EEC country, including people tak ing up employment, applications are con- sidered to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allowances. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval and net inflows into the banks may be subject to guidelines set from time to time by the Central Bank. At the end of 1978 the following guidelines were in force. Banks are required to deposit with the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank 50 per cent of any net capital inflows occurring after May 1977. However, subject to prior consultation with the Central Bank, inflows of capital in connection with the financing of major industrial projects, whether public or private, may be exempted from the 50 per cent requirement. Moreover, temporary inflows arising f rom acceptances already arranged, may also be exempted from the requirement. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by fore ign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign cur- rencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. The Central Bank will consider applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member coun try of the EEC with foreign currency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EEC may be financed only by foreign currency borrowing, which will be approved by the Central Bank on appli- cation, subject to a l im it of <£ Ir 20,000 a property and one property for each f am i ly un i t. Borrowings may be repaid with official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire fore ign currency proceeds f rom the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Transactions in foreign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities ( inc lud ing U.K. securities) may be sold only to nonresidents. Where such securities, whether acquired with sterling investment currency or not, are sold, the proceeds must be either reinvested or offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i th in three months. Dur ing that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of for- eign currency securities (including U.K. securities), apart f rom switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors for portfolio invest- ment abroad. Borrowing for investment in securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty, and the European Atomic Energy Community are normally approved for any Irish resident and are subject to less stringent requirements.3 Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may 8 Such borrow ings may be repaid in equal installments over five years w i th official fo re ign exchange; interest charges may also be paid with official fore ign exchange. IRELAND be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member countries. Dealings by nonresidents in Irish registered securities are permitted subject to notification to the Central Bank; purchases by nonresidents must be funded with fore ign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account. Remittances of casli g if ts or personal loans are nor- mally permitted up to <£ Ir 1,500 a donor a calendar year. For dependents, an additional amount of up to <£ I r2 ,000 a donor a year in cash g if ts or personal loans may be remitted. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts or personal loans to EEC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, will be considered. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank pr iva te sector borrowing from nonresidents; such applications are considered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of prop- erty for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing f rom nonresidents is unde r taken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lend ing of Irish currency to nonresidents is not no rma l ly permitted, except to the extent that overdraft fac i l i t ies may be provided by the banks to members of d ip loma t ic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio invest- ment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled by interests in EEC countries may obtain f rom Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permis- sion to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial pur- poses, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not per- mitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1978 January 1. Ireland completed the phasing out of its duties on imports of all industrial and agricultural products from other member states of the EEC, and fu l ly aligned its customs duties with those of the EEC's common customs tariff for imports from third countries. Ireland acceded to all existing preferential trade agree- ments negotiated between the EEC and third countries. January 1. New quota levels came into effect for certain imports, including textiles, yarns, and footwear, from countries in the state trading area. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND December 18. In consequence of Ireland's decision to participate in the European Monetary System, Ireland introduced exchange control measures to be applied to all financial transactions with Great Britain, Nor thern Ireland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and Gibraltar. These areas are, for convenience, referred to as the "United Kingdom" in the description given below. The general effect was to align the United Kingdom with other EEC countries. All persons, companies, and other legal entities resident in the Un i ted Kingdom were designated as nonresident for Irish exchange control purposes. In consequence, all payments to, or on behalf of, or for the credit of such persons would require permission f rom an authorized dealer or, in certain cases, f rom the Central Bank. The exchange control measures adopted were as follows: 1. Designation of accounts, (a) The accounts of banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in Ireland of residents of the United Kingdom were designated Exter- nal Accounts; (b) all credits in excess of <£Ir 50,000 to nonbank External Accounts, irrespective of the coun- try of residence of the account holder, required the specific approval of the Central Bank; and (c) without the specific approval of the Central Bank, the max imum permitted balance on accounts of nonresident banks, irrespective of the country of residence of the bank, was an amount <£Ir 100,000 in excess of the balance on each such account at the close of business on December 17, 1978. 2. Accounts in the United Kingdom of Irish residents. Irish residents holding accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United Kingdom were required to close such accounts within three months. The balance on such account must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, unless the account holder had applied for, and had been granted, approval by the Central Bank to continue to operate the account. Within the period of three months referred to above, such accounts might not be used to acquire securities or properties outside Ireland or to make other capital trans- fers to nonresidents of Ireland. 3. Foreign borrowing. Apart from borrowings asso- ciated with normal trade credit terms, the prior approval of the Central Bank would be required for all borrowing from residents of the United Kingdom. 4. Portfolio investment, (a) Purchases of Irish- quoted securities by nonresidents (including U.K. residents) should be notified to the Central Bank, (b) Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities (including U.K. securities) might be sold only to non- residents; where such securities were sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested or offered for sale to an authorized dealer within two months (later extended to three mon th s ), (c) Purchases of foreign currency securities (including U.K. securities), apart from switches referred to in (b) above, were not allowed. The Central Bank, however, was prepared to consider applications f rom institutional investors to borrow for- eign currency for portfolio investment. 5. Direct investment. Existing rules for the super- vision of direct investment in the EEC now applied to the United Kingdom. 6. Personal capital movements. Existing rules for the supervision of personal capital movements to the EEC now applied to the United Kingdom. 7. Purchases of personal property abroad. Existing rules for the supervision of the purchase of personal property in the EEC now applied to the United King- dom. Applications for permission to borrow foreign currency for the purchase of personal property outside the EEC would be approved by the Central Bank, subject to a limit of <£ Ir 20,000 for each property and one property for each fam i ly unit. Borrowings might be repaid in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years with official foreign exchange. 8. Imports and exports. Imports from and exports to the United Kingdom were subject to the same rules as were applied to trade with other countries. These rules were designed not to hinder trade but only to monitor payments and avoid evasion of restrictions on capital movements. 9. Travel. The existing foreign travel arrangements applied to the United Kingdom. 10. Exempted transactions. Transactions not exceed- ing <£Ir 100 in value were exempted from exchange control. 11. Provision of forward cover. With effect from December 18: (a) authorized dealers might provide forward cover to nonbank residents for trade-related transactions only; (b) authorized dealers might provide forward cover to nonresident banks on evidence that the transaction was related to trade; (c) prior Central Bank approval was required for cover in excess of <£Ir 50,000; and (d) authorized dealers might not pro- vide forward cover direct to nonbank nonresidents. 12. Rhodesia. Existing arrangements regarding Rho- desia remained unchanged. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The cu r rency of Israel is the Israel Pound. The authorities do not ma in ta in ma rg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange markets. However, the au thor i t ies intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluc- tua t ions in rates in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the ma rke t. Au tho r ized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange w i th residents and w i th their cor- respondents in foreign marke ts. At the end of the trad ing day the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quota- tions of the day as a representative rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1978 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was I £19.01 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is the respons ib i l i ty of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange and is adm in is te red by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agencies and is carr ied out th rough au tho r ized banks. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts and receipts must be effec ted in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control au thor i t ies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' f u n ds are held either in fore ign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The open ing of non res ident fore ign currency accounts does not requ i re prior approval. The holder may f ree ly e f fect t ran s fe rs f r om his fore ign cu r rency account. He may also convert f u n ds held on the account in to local cu r rency at the ma rket rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the open ing by a non- resident of a local cu r rency account and on the local use of such f u n d s, inc lud ing t ran s fe rs between nonres iden ts. Nonres ident holders of a local cu r rency account may convert at the ma rket rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, wh ich may be t r an s f e r r ed abroad, together w i th an amount of local cu r rency not exceeding I £5,000. The sales proceeds of real es ta te and other inves tmen ts may be t r an s f e r r ed in the ir en t i re ty if the o r ig in al inves tment had been made w i th fo r e ign cu r rency or State of Israel Deve lopment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may m a i n t a in fo re ign cu r rency deposits with au tho r ized banks in Israel on e i ther ( 1) PATAM accounts, wh ich may be held by all recipients of fo re ign exchange or fo re ign cu r rency acqu i red f rom a bank or (2) PAZAK or TAMAM accounts, which may be held by recipients of res t i tu t ion payments and certain disability pensions. PATAM accounts are demand or time deposit accounts in fo re ign currency placed w i th authorized banks, which must redeposit, respectively, 90 per cent or 80 per cent of the fore ign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Balances in these accounts are transferab le between residents and may be used to pay for any bona fide in te rna t ional current transaction. PAZAK or TAMAM accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with author- ized banks, which must redeposit all of these foreign currency f u n ds w i th the Bank of Israel. Two thirds of convertible exchange receipts derived f rom personal restitution payments and from pensions of disabled soldiers who served during World War II may be credited to PAZAK accounts; the remaining one third may be credited to TAMAM accounts. Funds deposited in both types of account are free of taxation. TAMAM accounts are permitted to be used for ( 1) payment of p rem iums on existing life insurance policies denom ina ted in foreign currency and (2) pay- ment of expenses in connection w i th travel and subsis- tence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange a l loca t ion. Holders of TAMAM accounts may resell securities bought w i th TAMAM account funds for foreign cu r rency, and deposit the proceeds in a TAMAM account. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few impor ts are prohibited f rom all sources and all impo r ts f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Almost all impo r ts are f ree of licensing and administrative or qu an t i t a t ive restrictions. A few imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes some meat and da i ry produc ts, sugar, tobacco, chemicals, and pha rmaceu t ical products. Oilseeds and edible fa ts are impo r ted exclusively by or for account of the Govern- men t. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is g ran ted au toma t ica l ly by the banks upon presentation of proof of the impo rt transac t ion. A value-added tax is levied on a lmost all imported and domestically produced goods, o ther t h an cap i tal goods and travel tickets. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for paymen ts abroad on account of invisi- bles is provided au toma t ica l ly upon proof of the na ture of the t ran sac t ion. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equ iva lent of US$3,000 a traveler for each j o u r n e y. No l im i ts app ly w i th respect to credit cards. Res ident t rave le rs may take out part or all of the travel a l lowance in Israel bankno tes. Nonresident travelers 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$3,000 and may, in addition, take out up to I .£5,000 in Israel banknotes. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality control. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PAT AM account. Exporters may retain in a deposit account abroad an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PATAM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt f rom the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amoun ts of Israel banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident may be held in a PATAM account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of May 23, 1976, which, inter a l ia, permits a nonresident who has made an investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that ( 1) are established either in "priority areas" or in less developed areas; (2) are export oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of the ou tput is exported or the existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; ( 3) have geared production to impor t-subs t i tu t ion, even though for economic reasons, the enterprise cannot be estab- lished in a priority area or in a less developed area; or (4) will fac i l i ta te the absorption of immigrants. There is no d ifference between an "approved invest- ment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in fore ign currency, inso far as his rights to t r an s f er abroad the principal, the interest, or the profits are concerned, 224 and repayments and amortization of capital may also be transferred.1 However, there are differences as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Investments made by nonresidents prior to Janua ry 1, 1958 and investments made by nonresidents in foreign exchange a f ter that date can be transferred abroad. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. Any resident may retain real estate abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from such assets; in addition, new immigrants may retain their liquid assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital na ture by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. A general license allows nonresidents to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits of these investments, proof is required to be presented to an authorized dealer that they were made in foreign currency. Direct loans in any fo rm to nonresidents are subject to licensing, but loans to a resident by a nonresident may be made freely if the f u n ds are credited to a PATAM account. Gold Residents, including private persons, may hold gold in the form of bars or certificates entitling them to gold held in bars on deposit with an authorized dealer. Gold can be bought or sold only from or to an author- ized dealer. Other residents are forbidden to trade in gold or to take it out of Israel. Imports of gold are permitted only if an import license is obtained. Changes during 1978 During the year, numerous amendments were made to the schedule of import tariff rates, to the list of imports subject to licensing or other restrictions, and to the list of imports subject to ta r i ff surcharges. April 1. Two amendments were made to the income tax provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Indus try. The income tax on retained earnings was reduced f rom 35 to 20 per cent and firms were author- ized to revalue their inventories by 25 per cent and 50 per cent of domestic inflation in 1978 and 1979. November 1. The Additional Protocol to the Agree- ment between the EEC and Israel and the Protocol on Financial Cooperation between the EEC and Israel entered into force. December 10. A 20 per cent surrender requirement was imposed on receipts f rom short-term foreign loans and capital inflows. The requirement took the form of interest-free deposits at the Bank of Israel. Sup- pliers' credit for the financing of imports was exempted f rom the requirement. 1 On Feb rua ry 9, 1979 the Bank of Israel issued an order prohibiting res iden ts f r om t a k i ng short-term or med ium- term credits, of less than two and a ha lf years, in foreign currencies. The order did not apply to suppliers' cred i ts for the f inanc ing of imports. In the first instance the ban was valid for 60 days, but on February 19 it was extended both in t ime and in scope to become a total ban on foreign currency borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Italy is the I ta l ian L ira. The I ta l ian authorities do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates for current transactions on the official m a r k e tl are de term ined largely on the basis of demand and supp ly conditions in the exchange markets .2 However, the au tho r i t ies in t e r- vene when necessary in order to m a i n t a in o rde r ly con- ditions in the exchange ma rke t. The p r in c ip al in te rven- tion currency is the U.S. do l lar. D i f f e r ent exchange rates arise for ou twa rd t ran s fe rs of res iden t -owned cap- i ta l, for the large ma jo r i ty of wh ich a deposit in l i re of 50 per cent must be lodged w i th the Bank of Italy. On December 29, 1978 the o f f ic ial ra te 3 for the U.S. do l lar was Lit 829.75 per US$1. The mone ta ry au tho r i t ies do not in p r inc ip le in te rvene in the f o rw a rd exchange mar- ke t; fo rwa rd p r em i ums and d i scoun ts a re n o rm a l ly l e ft to the in te rp lay of market forces. Au tho r ized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange t ransac t ions in any currency, and in fo rwa rd exchange t ran sac t ions up to 360 days in m a jor convertible and ex te rna l ly conver t ib le currenc ies ,4 when dea l ing w i th o ther banks, or up to 180 days when dea l ing w i th nonbanks. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of f inanc ial t ransac t ions requ i res au tho r iza- t ion. Pub l ic corporations which have been ins truc ted to borrow abroad on behalf of the Bank of I ta ly receive f u ll fo rwa rd cover for their debt service payments. I ta ly fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is opera ted by the Italian Exchange Office (Uff ic io Italiano dei Cambi or U IC) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the i Currenc ies officially quoted are Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Por tuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. (W i th effect f rom March 13, 1979 rates for the Irish pound are also quo ted .) a With effect f r om March 13, 1979 I ta ly pa r t ic ipa tes in the exchange ra te mechan ism of the European Mone ta ry System. :{The official rate is the average of the "fixing" quo ta t ions of the fo re ign exchange m a r k e ts in M i lan and Rome. 4 These currencies are re fe r red to in the Italian regu la t ions as the conto valutario currencies. They consist of the currenc ies listed in foo tno te 1 with the addition of Norwegian kroner. Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. The net ex te rnal position of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses (1) the spot pos i t ion vis-a-vis nonres iden ts in fo re ign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and fo rw a rd comb ined, in all fore ign currencies; a ba lanced fo re ign cu r r en cy position on a da i ly basis is required separa te ly in (a) U.S. do l lars, (b) EEC currencies, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Au tho r ized banks are not sub ject to any ceiling on the ir net fo re ign l iab i l i ty position but are prohibited f rom ma in ta in ing a net foreign asset position; in addition, out- s tand ing net fo rwa rd t ransac t ions aga inst lire are sub ject to a ce i l ing set i n d i v i d u a l ly for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th fore ign coun tr ies must no rma l ly be made in conve r t ib le currenc ies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, there are special a r r a n g em e n ts und er a debt l iqu ida t ion agreement. Nonresident Accounts The ma in types of accounts in I ta l ian lire wh ich non- residents are allowed to ma in ta in with authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.5 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain inves tmen ts, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, f rom Capital Accounts, and f rom Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire f rom au thor ized cu r rent and capital payments, and w i th the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies.6 They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ord inary marke t, for t rans fe rs to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transac t ions, for paymen ts due to residents on account of the ir d is inves tmen ts abroad, and for draw ings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Capital Accounts may be credited w i th t rans fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts, f rom Special Accounts, and f rom other Capital Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 5 Italians living or working abroad are permitted to maintain with Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in conto valutario currencies. They may be credited with remittances (including banknotes) sent direct to the bank from abroad (up to 80 per cent of the ho lder's wage or salary earn ings if credits exceed Lit 150,000 a mon th) and with interest on the balance; they may be debited freely for conversion into lire, for w i thd rawa ls in fore ign banknotes (up to Lit 100,000, for r e t u rn trips ab road ), and for t rans fe rs abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area wo rke rs" ). These accounts may also be held by I ta l ian representatives abroad and by Italian s taff employed by international organizations. 6 The banks' power to credit fore ign banknotes and credit instruments expressed in fore ign currency without prior authorization is limited to Lit 1 million in a calendar year for banknotes and credit instruments not remitted to the banks direct f rom abroad. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for trans- fers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Ac- counts, and for the purchase of inves tmen ts not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in I ta ly convertible currencies or exter- nally convertible European currencies in accordance w i th the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be cred- ited with the coun te rva lue of convertible currencies sold in I ta ly, w i th transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, or f rom other Special Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of inves tmen ts that have been made in accordance w i th Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was o r ig ina l ly sold and for invest- ments in I ta ly, and balances may be t ran s fe r red to For- eign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a M in is te r ial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regu la t ions vary with the coun try of origin. Countries are grouped in three ma jor areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A /1 (EEC coun tr ies, Guade loupe, French Gu i an a, Mar t i- nique, and Reun ion ), A /2 (overseas countries and ter- ritories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association, and other countries associated w i th the EEC), and A /3 (third countries); Zone B (member countries of the Council for Mu tu al Economic Assist- ance (CMEA), A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, and Nor th Korea); and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction and goods that require a special license. Import liberaliza- tion is v i r tua l ly complete for subzones A /1 and A/2, while very few quan t i ta t ive restrictions remain for sub- zone A /3. Many types of goods f rom Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports f rom countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the coun try of shipment. All imports of Rhodesian origin are proh ib i ted. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non- EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an author- ized bank is required. Where settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation, the importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, 226 through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after importation, and the balance w i th in 24 months af ter importation; such payments require the prior approval of the UIC if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade is required; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days a f ter the date of importation, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M in is try of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance paymen ts for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 120 days before importation. Advance paymen ts in excess of Lit 2 million must be made with foreign cur- rency borrowed f rom authorized banks. When prepay- ments for imports exceed Lit 10 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). In te rna t ional postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject, in the case of payments to Switzer- land, to a l im it of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and fore ign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require authorization by the exchange control authorities. How- ever, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for paymen ts for invisibles provided that the necessary documents are submitted, except for tourist travel and travel for business, study, or health reasons; their au tho r i ty to sell exchange for fam i ly remittances is limited to Lit 35,000 a transfer. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for payments, sub- ject, in the case of payments to Switzerland, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Min- istry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries 7 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes trans- actions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single trip); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents 7 Albania, Bhu tan, Bu lgar ia, People's Republic of China (including Mongo l ia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hun- gary, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and ( for chartering ships only) Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights; informa- tion agencies, etc. (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million for each contract); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year for each contract); services of pro- fessional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million); and services of en ter ta iners and athletes (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes transactions giving rise to ex- penditures for production abroad of films, u t i l iza t ion of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and a ircraft against risks of operation; 8 and other transac t ions when the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 750,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical t rea tmen t, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 750,000); the UIC grants foreign exchange above these allowances (except for tourism), provided that it is satisfied that th is is jus t i f ied in the l ight of the du ra t ion and purpose of the t r ip. The amount that may be taken out in the fo rm of fore ign bankno tes is Lit 100,000, wh i le up to Lit 650,000 may be taken out in letters of credit, fore ign payment orders, t rave le rs checks, or non t ran s fe rab le checks d rawn on fo re ign banks. The l im it on the am o u nt of I t a l i an bankno tes that can be taken out is Lit 100,000.° Nonres ident trave lers may take out any amount in fore ign bankno tes that they have previously declared upon en t ry, subject to a l im it of the equ iva lent of Lit 200,000 a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 100,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. However, the export of Italian bankno tes in denom ina t ions larger than Lit 50,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any coun t ry of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) requ i re export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in va lue, no exchange control form is required; for exports f rom Lit 1 mil- lion to Lit 2 million in value, a fo rm completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 mil- lion in va lue, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. If settlement takes place more than 360 days before expo r ta t ion or more than 120 days a f ter expor ta t ion, the expor ter must effect the paymen ts operations related to his export t ransac t ions th rough an au tho r ized bank as his b ank of dom ic i le. Advance paymen ts for expo r ts may be received f ree ly if expor ta t ion is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts requ i re the p r ior app roval of the UIC. Deferred paymen ts for exports are pe rm i t ted if settlement is to take place to the ex tent of at least ITALY 90 per cent within 120 days after exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation. For settle- ments between 120 and 360 days after exportation, the approval of the UIC is required. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, or of the Autonomous Section for Export Credits ( SACE ), depending on whether the max- imum delay granted to the foreign importer is longer or shorter than five years, and on whether the trans- action will be covered by state insurance. Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment, 90 per cent of exchange receipts must be collected w i th in 120 days of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt, while 10 per cent must be collected w i th in 24 months of shipment. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European cur- rencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in Ordinary Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for 15 days, dur ing which period such balances may be used for permitted trans- actions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for author- ized transac t ions or to negotiate them freely w i th the UIC or among themselves.10 A f t er expiration of the re ten t ion period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange rate quoted dur ing the retention period (these rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rom e ). Export proceeds may also be received by in te rna t ional postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each paymen t, and in certain circumstances, in foreign bankno tes that are accepted in the coun t ry of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are con- ver t ib le at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current inv is ib les are subject to the same collection, re ten t ion, and surrender requ iremen ts as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance com- pan ies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may keep Ope ra t ing Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and ex te rna l ly con- ver t ib le European currencies; unu t i l ized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain fore ign bankno tes l e ft over f rom trips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in fore ign bankno tes and Lit 100,000 in I t a l i an bankno tes, in denom ina t ions not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inw a rd and ou twa rd movemen ts of nonresident cap- ital are free, but loans of any k ind f rom nonresidents to residents and f rom residents to nonres iden ts requ ire * Such t ransac t ions need a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry. w Persons l iv ing in border areas may not take out more than Lit 35,000 a day in f o r e i gn and domes t ic bankno tes and coin comb ined, of wh ich f o r e i gn notes and coin must not exceed the equ iv a l ent of Lit 15,000. 10 Foreign cu r r en cy may be re ta ined in O rd ina ry Foreign Currency Accoun ts u n t il the seven th day a f t er the da te on wh ich the ind iv idual exchange rece ipt concerned was c red i ted to the accoun t. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively; how- ever, as exceptions, long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Coopera- tion and Development (OECD) for establishing or main- taining lasting economic relations, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of serv- ices) from EEC countries do not require authorization. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, port- folio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for investment fund securities, but mu tual funds investing entirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addition, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Reinvestments of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original investment was made prior to July 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EEC ins t i tu t ions are also exempt. Outward direct investment transactions have f rom time to time been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regulations. Foreign investments of any kind, including both direct and portfolio inves tment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not hav ing the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any form and w i thout any limit.11 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by jur id ical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the I ta l ian firm mak ing the invest- ment and under the supervision of the UIC; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization f rom the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these inves tmen ts also covers 11 F inanc ial inve s tmen t, i.e., inve s tment not intended to establish pe rmanent relations, is not considered direct inves tmen t. The regu la t ions gove rn ing d irect inves tment are also not applicable to participations in "holdings" abroad of any k ind. 228 the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (after crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by resi- dents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any kind (including mu tual funds), as well as convertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including the investment of at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and the estab- lishment of a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues above Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to inter- national institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and .the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal grant- ing of credits for commercial transactions or the per- formance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected a f ter examination of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the la t ter only beyond a certain dura t ion, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or w i th the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC coun- tries as indicated above. The export of Italian and foreign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unref ined gold imported under ministerial license for indus tr ial pur- poses. The mone tary authorities may free ly acqu ire un re f ined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unre- fined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the M in is try of Foreign Trade to I ta l ian firms for industrial use. Exports of wrought and sem imanufac- tured gold, other than jewe lry, are subject to licensing. Imports of unrefined gold are in principle subject to value-added tax but at the end of 1978 the rate of tax was zero per cent. Importation and exportation of gold coins which are legal tender in a fo re ign coun try are prohibited in the absence of a special au thor iza t ion. Imports of other gold coins for num isma t ic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1978 January 10. Specified textile products were hence- for th permitted to be imported only through the customs ports of Bergamo, Biella, Civitavecchia, Prato, Varese, and Venice, while specified iron and steel products could be imported only through Bari, Brescia, Genoa, and Trieste. ITALY January 25. The list of permissible customs entry points was expanded from 6 to 12 ports for textile imports and f rom 4 to 29 ports for steel imports. April 21. The deposit requirement on outward trans- fers of resident-owned capital was amended. Italian residents could hencefor th reinvest funds in new issues or on the secondary market without lodging the deposit provided the original investment was made prior to Ju ly 27, 1973. April 27. Surveillance was introduced over imports of wool from any source including the EEC. April 29. The suspension of imports into Italy of certain varieties of squid, authorized by the Commission of the European Communities on November 28, 1977, was term ina ted. June 19. The requirement of partial foreign financing for exports on deferred payment terms, in effect since May 7, 1976, was terminated. July 3. The entire amount of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel, equivalent to Lit 750,000 a person a year, could henceforth be taken out in the form of travelers checks. August 9. A ministerial decree prohibited the impor- tation or exportation, w i thout special authorization, of gold coins which are legal tender in a foreign country. August 9. Advance payments for imports could hence- for th take place 120 days prior to importation (or 180 days in special cases of transport de lay ), compared with 60 days previously. Advance payments for exports were required to be made in foreign currency. October 30. The period for which banks might retain foreign currencies on behalf of importers and exporters was extended from 7 days to 15 days. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f r anc and the CFA franc. They include commission charges. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on trans- fers f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and one of 2.50 per m i ll on t rans fe rs to such countries.2 Commercial banks and the postal system also levy a commission on t rans fe rs to all countries out- side the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are con- sidered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Financing in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 230 the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ab id jan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, is pro- hibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports f rom Portugal may in practice be made freely, although the liberalization has not yet been for- malized. Imports f rom the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made on a barter basis or as com- pensation transactions. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or are subject to import license or prior authorization (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents). Imports of rice are related to domestic production so as to be complementary to purchases of domestically pro- duced rice. These imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any country, subject only to the submission of a declaration of in tent to import. How- ever, ta r i f fs have been raised for certain goods that compete with local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by quotas. Specific ceilings have been set for selected imports from certain countries having low production costs with which the trade balance has been consistently in large deficit. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annually. With minor exceptions, imports by sea or air, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to preshipment inspection in order to control their price, quantity, and quality. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution month before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely, at any time, through an author- ized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten). For busi- ness travel a special fore ign exchange allocation is authorized up to a max imum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange rema in ing in excess of CFAF 5,000 a f ter return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The t rans fer of the f u ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is perm i t ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Resident and non- resident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the equiv- alent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name a f ter conversion of foreign currency into CFA f rancs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon en try or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of processed and unpro- cessed agricultural commodities, however, require the IVORY COAST visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries must be not later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be col- lected and, if the contract is invoiced in currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area, must be surrendered on the exchange market within two months of the due date. All export transactions relating to for- eign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank w i th in eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such operations requ ire prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning as do issues by Ivory Coast com- panies. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offer ing, or sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- ta ry Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the postponement of the project. The liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subs id iar ies abroad of companies resident in Ivory Coast. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies resident in Ivory Coast that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly u n d er fore ign control and those made by branches or subs id iar ies in Ivo ry Coast of fo r e ign companies. finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On May 9, 1978 a dual exchange rate system that had been in force for more than a year was abolished and the va lue of the Jama ica dollar was set at J$1.55 = US$1. The Jama ican au thor i- ties have announced that they wou ld depreciate the Jamaica dollar by 15 per cent over the ensu ing 12 menths at a rate of 1.5 per cent each month through September 1978 and by 1 per cent each month through May 1979. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates against the U.S. do l lar, which are iden t ical except for the commission men t ioned below, were J$ 1.694963 = US$1. The in terven t ion cu r rency is the U.S. dollar and Jama ica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of fo re ign exchange. How- ever, exchange rate gua ran tees were given in respect of some transac t ions at the t ime of exchange ra te changes in Apr il and October 1977 and J anu a ry 1978. For transac t ions in respect of which such gua ran tees were given, the difference between the guaran teed rate and the rate applicable when the transaction is effected is paid by the Bank of Jama ica. Each person or firm to whom such a guaran tee was given was required to deposit in a local commercial bank, not la ter than June 30, 1978, the Jama ica dollar amount requ i red to settle the obligation; this da te was subsequently extended to November 10, 1978. Exchange rate guarantees where applicable are being preserved up to June 30, 1978; that is to say, the va lue of the gua ran tee is the d i f fe rence between the guaran teed rate and the ra te in effect on June 30, 1978. Any add i t ional Jama ica do l lar costs resu l t ing f rom exchange rate changes a f t er J u ne 30, 1978 are for the account of the depositor. Fa i lure to make the deposit results in the loss of the guaran tee. Subsidy paymen ts w i ll con t inue to be made pu r su ant to cu r ren t ly ou t s tand ing comm i tmen ts. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transac t ions in Canad ian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, to purchases of Canad ian, U.K., and U.S. banknotes, and to purchases of certain Caribbean and European bankno tes. It deals in other currencies only against s ter l ing and U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jama ica buys and sells U.S. dollars at par, plus a commission of 0.625 per cent on the selling side. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the Bank of Jamaica's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar and the rates against the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional marke ts. The Bank of Jama ica sets da i ly off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for dealings w i th the banks in sterling and Canad ian dollars on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes da i ly rates at which commer- cial banks must deal w i th the ir customers in transac t ions invo lv ing Jama ica dollars aga inst Canad ian dollars, pounds s ter l ing, or U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jama ica is authorized by law to fix its buy ing and selling rates of exchange. For currenc ies other than currencies of member countries of the Ca r ibbean Common Market (CAR i c oM )1 and for spot dealings w i th commercial banks, the Bank of Jama ica charges no comm iss ion on purchases but 0.625 per cent on sales. The commerc ial b a n ks apply a comm iss ion charge ( p r em i um) of 0.375 per cent on sales of non- CAR ICOM currenc ies and a commission charge (d is- coun t) of 0.125 per cent on purchases of these curren- cies. For purchases equ iva lent to J$ 1,000 or more, the comm iss ion charge (d i scoun t) is waived. For CARICOM currenc ies, the commerc ial banks apply a comm iss ion charge of 0.25 per cent on both sales and purchases. Under an a r rangement w i th the Central Banks of Tr in idad and Tobago and Barbados and w i th the East Car ibbean Currency Au tho r i ty, the Bank of Jama ica purchases bankno tes issued by these mone ta ry authori- ties and repatriates them against settlements made through the CARICOM multilateral clearing facility. Jamaica fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance, subject to certain l im i ta t ions in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide fore ign exchange, and t rans fe rs f rom Ex ternal Accounts, all fore ign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jama ica; they sell foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in tu rn purchase foreign exchange f r om the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Adm in is tra tor, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency .2 Receipts f rom all countries must be received 1 The CAR ICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Luc ia, St. Vincent, and Tr in idad and Tobago. 2 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All fo re ign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts w i thout the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between non- residents. External Accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts by residents of Jamaica approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign curren- cies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities and /or local mortgages. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$ 1,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating in the People's Republic of China or Cuba require individual import licenses. A small number of goods may be imported freely f rom v ir tua l ly all sources under an open general license.3 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not norma l ly issued unless they originate in member coun- tries of the CARicoM.4 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Nutrition Holdings Limited. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the importer must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or 3 For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 4 For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas is also treated as a CARICOM member country. 234 that he is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufac tured domes- tically. In addition, since May 9, 1978, a 10 per cent stamp duty tax is applied to imports with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petro- leum, fuel for u t i l i ty companies, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. In December 1978 the authorities initiated a scheme whereby, w i th in certain limits, the availability of foreign exchange is guaranteed to those importers who qua l ify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export performance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income f rom emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for fam i ly maintenance, and cash gifts. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for family main- tenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i tar ian grounds. The 7 per cent guideline on dividends that was in force in 1977 was removed in May 1978. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation on a current basis. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each 12-month period for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional rea- sons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of US$67 a day for the United States and US$82 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be de- ducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans work- ing in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 per cent of their gross salary during the currency of their contract, and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Since July 1, 1978 remittances in respect of current transactions, including royalties, interest on private nonguaranteed debt, commissions, fees, insurance pre- miums, profits, dividends, rentals, etc., are being made on a current basis. Until then such payments were approved for transfer on a delayed basis ranging be- tween 3 months and 9 months. Payments for group ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution insurance (other than life insurance) connected with a resident's membership in a professional association are subject to the approval of the Bank of Jamaica. At the end of June 1978 arrears had accumulated in respect of payments and transfers for imports and other transactions approved under the exchange control regu- lations. Under the deposit scheme introduced in May 1978 to process these arrears, local currency deposits were required in the case of exchange payments for which approval was delayed or withheld because of shortages of foreign exchange. The arrears are being paid off under a preannounced schedule.5 Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica must declare the foreign exchange they bring in or take out of Jamaica. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$200 (f .o .b .) may be f ree ly exported by post or air express to any coun try not on the prohibited list.0 Where the value exceeds J$200, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agr icu l tural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu re, ready-made garments, gold bullion, m ineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Ex- porters are required to surrender their exchange pro- ceeds to authorized dealers w i th in three months f rom the da te of shipment. However, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, certain exporters may re ta in, an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas comm i tmen ts, as may be necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents re turn ing to Jama ica may b r ing in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a trave ler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the coun t ry, and all travelers may b r ing in any amount of fore ign banknotes. It is an offense for visitors to b r ing in or take out Jama ica currency. Resident tra- velers are requ ired to sell their holdings of fo re ign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re tu rn. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign cur- 5 At the end of 1978, a f ter the deposit scheme had been closed, new a r rea rs were i n c u r r e d, but these l a t t er a r r e a rs we re e l im in a t ed d u r i ng J a n u a ry 1979. 0 The list comprises A lban ia, B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, G e rm an Democra t ic Repub l ic, H u n g a r y, Po land, Rhodesia, Roman ia, South A f r i c a, and U.S.S.R. Expor ts to these coun t r ies requ i re specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South A f r i c a, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. JAMAICA rencies unless they can prove that they had purchased an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents f rom nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Foreign ex- change is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will at any time be able to repatriate his original invest- ment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican com- panies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-con- trolled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, foreign nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 per cent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit f rom Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annua l ly in ten equal installments, subject to a maximum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous under- tak ing that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can sa t isfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and cons t ruc t ing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i tar ian grounds, no fo re ign exchange is made ava i lab le for remittances of capital or income to Jama ican nationals who have em igra ted abroad and to beneficiaries under wills and in tes tac ies. A max imum of J$4,000 a year may be allowed by the M in is ter of Finance on human i ta r ian grounds .7 7 This amount in Jama ica dollars has been increased to take into account the deva lua t ions of the Jama ica dollar since J a n u a ry 1977. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Through October 30, 1978, payments and transfers in respect of the amortization of private nonguaranteed debt were, in principle, approvable for remittance in the calendar quarter following the quarter in which they fell due. However, payments and transfers for this purpose had not normally been approved and some arrears under the deposit scheme (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles, above) are to be paid off dur ing 1979. Since November 1978 payments on account of private nonguaranteed debt were approvable on demand.8 Gold Two commemorative gold coins of J$20 and J$100 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial im- ports of jewelry are prohibited. Changes during 1978 January 13. The "basic" market rate was depreciated to US$0.95238 per J$l and the "special" market rate was depreciated to US$0.74074 per J$ l. May 9. The exchange market was reunified at the rate of US$0.64516 per J$ l. The Jamaican authorities announced their intention to fur ther depreciate the exchange rate during the ensuing 12 months by an additional 15 per cent. May 9. The allowance for tourist travel was raised to J$86 a year, and the allowance for business travel 8 Some fu r th er arrears that had accumulated by the end of 1978 were paid off dur ing Janua ry 1979. was increased to J$104 a day for the United States and J$127 a day for Europe. These basic entitlements of foreign exchange allowances for travel and for other payments for invisibles were henceforth to be denomi- nated in U.S. dollars instead of Jamaica dollars, in view of the planned monthly changes in the value of the latter currency. Thus, the basic exchange allowance for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons for each 12-month period was set at US$55 a person; for business trips the daily allowance was set at US$67 for the United States and US$82 for Europe. May 9. A 10 per cent stamp duty tax was imposed on all imports except government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports f rom other CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. May 12. A deposit scheme was introduced in order to regulate the settlement of current arrears on payments. Under this arrangement, the local importers or debtors with overdue payments obligations were required to deposit the local currency counterpart of the obligation in a blocked account with a commercial bank not later than June 30, 1978 in order to be eligible to purchase foreign exchange at the exchange rate that had been in effect when the payment became due. (The deadline to make the required deposit was later extended to Novem- ber 10, 1978, but the exchange rate guarantee covered only the period up to June 30, 1978.) June 8. In keeping with the stated official policy relating to small adjustments in exchange rates over 1978-79, the Jamaica dollar was depreciated in terms of the U.S. dollar. It was announced that monthly ex- change rate adjustments would become effective as of midnight on the second Thursday of each month. The adjustments would be 1.5 per cent each month through September 1978, and 1 per cent each month through May 1979. June 26. All visitors to Jamaica were required to de- clare foreign exchange brought in and taken out of Jamaica. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Kate System The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 was ¥ 194.60 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a permitted underlying transaction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Long- term inward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers. In some exceptional cases, outward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun- tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Free Yen Accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions, with yen proceeds f rom sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with interest accrued on balances in these accounts, with the proceeds from the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates, and with the countervalue in yen of author- ized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments f rom these accounts, and balances may be con- verted freely into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject either to individual licensing by the authorized banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There are two procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: ( 1) The Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 79 items; 27 of these have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the other 53 items have been notified as fa l l ing under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT; 1 item classified in the Customs Coop- eration Council Nomenclature (CCCN), four-digit, is counted tw ice). Once the importer has obtained an import quota from MITI, he receives an import quota cer t if ica te which entitles him to receive an import license f rom an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued by MITI on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Declaration System, imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items may be imported f rom any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include certain dairy prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, and raw and manu fac tu red tobacco. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or up to six months (in the case of capital goods, consumer durables, and imports based on consignment sales contracts up to one year) a f ter customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require the prior approval of MITI. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or MITI. Payments to other countries for invisibles are subject to verification by foreign exchange banks without any limitation. For technological and construction services, contracts allow- ing for payment more than one year af ter completion of work, must be licensed by the Minister of Finance. G if ts and donations to nonresidents, except relatives abroad, are referred to the Bank of Japan; upon verifi- cation of the authenticity of the payment, they are approved. Current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection with travel 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN abroad and remittances to relatives abroad, may be made without limit or verification. Other payments in amounts in excess of ¥ 3 million a remittance requ ire the verification of a foreign exchange bank or licensing by the Bank of Japan or by the Minister of Finance, depending on the purpose of the paymen t. For example, certain technical assistance and service contracts require approval, but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to ¥ 3 million in Japanese currency and may acquire foreign currency deposits in Japan. Overseas deposits by individuals up to ¥ 3 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified enterprises in insurance, transportation, securities, etc., are per- mitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licens- ing from the Bank of Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by v ir tue of the Export and Import Transaction Law and an export trade control order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1978, there were 58 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transaction Law. Of these, 47 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transactions, 11 required prior approval of manufac- turers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 10 were reinforced by an export trans- action license requirement. In addition, 205 items were subject to export license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. These items are goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on certain goods to control their export to specified socialist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten o re ); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts, and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require individual licenses. With minor exceptions, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Under the "standard" method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months after ship- ment. There are no surrender requirements for foreign currency earnings. Advance receipts are freely allowed up to one year prior to certification; and individual license is required for conversion of the proceeds into yen when they exceed the equivalent of US$500,000, or receipt is more than one year in advance. In addi- tion, all exports (except exports whose value is not 238 more than ¥ 1 million or exports without foreign exchange) must be certified by a foreign exchange bank ("bank certification"). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. As an exception, contracts where payment may be received over one year after a technical assistance service, or a service connected with con- struction work, has been rendered are subject to indi- vidual licensing. Nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Residents are allowed to bring in Japanese currency without limitation. Capital Foreign investments in Japan (acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors) are generally subject to approval. Nonresidents are, in principle, not authorized to acquire from residents yen-denominated bonds (excluding those issued by nonresidents) with five years and one month or less remaining to maturity.1 However, acquisitions of stocks for portfolio investment are automatically approved. All acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned surpluses or revalu- ation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks, and interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certifi- cates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expro- priation may be repatriated freely. The remittance of the proceeds from the sale of validated stocks (shares), as well as the transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted freely. Proceeds from the sale of bonds, debentures, and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, which are freely transferable. When foreign companies wish to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they must inform the Ministry of 1 On Janua ry 23, 1979 this prohibition was changed to cover only securities with terms remaining to ma tu r i ty of not longer than one year and one mon th. On February 24, 1979 the restriction was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds f rom their main offices abroad, or to remit their profits and principal abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. Licenses are given automatically if the required documents are presented. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers, in certain important cases, and having regard to the opinion of the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownership up to 100 per cent is permitted in new or existing enterprises except in agriculture, for- estry, and fisheries industries, the mining and the oil industries, and the leather products manufac tur ing industry. In three of these four industries, investment is subject to case-by-case screening and in the mining industry foreign ownership is permitted automatically up to 50 per cent. Most of the validation procedures are entrusted .to the Bank of Japan. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes, and except for the above- mentioned four industries for commercial purposes, are free from licensing. Outward direct investments require only notification to the Bank of Japan, except for investment by banks and securities companies, which require a license by the Minister of Finance, and investment abroad by certain other industries that require approval of the Minister of Finance or the Bank of Japan. Outward portfolio investments by residents are basically liberal- ized. Foreign borrowers may issue yen bonds on the Japanese capital market; the t im ing and amount of issue is controlled by Japanese underwriters.2 Bond issues denominated in yen and floated in Europe (Euro-yen bonds) require approval of the M in is try of Finance.3 Japanese emigrants and emigrants of foreign nationality may f ree ly remit any amount f rom their assets to any country. Government institutions and foreign exchange banks may extend foreign currency loans to residents for financing certain types of long-term capital outflows with licensing by the Ministry of Finance ( for over US$1 million) or by the Bank of Japan (for US$1 mil- lion or less). Outward financial credits and loans are subject to licensing. Guarantees given by Japanese companies are basically liberalized except for a few cases. The issuing of bonds abroad denominated in foreign currencies also is subject to licensing; in recent years such issues have been permitted liberally. Securities acquired with approval under the Law Con- cerning Foreign Investment and the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law may be imported and exported freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject ind iv idua l ly to controls over their overall net position in fore ign cur- ~ In 1978 there were 40 flotations of yen-denominated bonds to ta l ing ¥ 827 billion, compared with 18 issues totaling ¥ 326 billion in 1977. ' •'- In 1978 there was one Euro-yen issue for ¥ 15 b i l l ion, compa red w i th th r ee issues to t a l ing ¥ 51.5 b i l l ion in 1977. JAPAN rency (their oversold or overbought position). Japanese banks are not allowed, in principle, oversold spot posi- tions, and limits are applied to the net oversold spot positions of foreign banks operating in Japan. Banks are also subject to maturity transformation control so that a certain proportion of increases in medium-term and long- term foreign currency loans must be matched, in prin- ciple, by funding of one year or greater maturity.4 Foreign loans of Japanese banks are subject to approval but blanket approval has been given to some of them since July 1978. Deposits held in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are subject to a reserve requirement of 0.25 per cent; increases in balances of these accounts above the average level in October 1977 were subject to a reserve requirement of 50 per cent from November 22, 1977 until March 17, 1978 and after March 18, 1978 increases in the balance above the average level of February 1978 are subject to a reserve requirement of 100 per cent.5 Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese bank ing regulations. In addition to domestic banking business, foreign banks make foreign currency loans to resident corporations (impact loans) subject to certain restrictions on their use, and they obtain resources from remittances of foreign currency, which are subject to ceilings (swap quo tas ). Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion is f ree f rom licensing, except for transactions exceeding the equivalent of ¥ 3 million. For such transactions notification to a foreign exchange bank or customs house is required. Changes during 1978 January 13. Measures announced by the Govern- ment to facilitate balance of payments adjustment included the following proposals affecting trade and payments arrangements: 1. Measures affecting trade. Tariff reductions in advance of the conclusion of the Tokyo Round negotia- tions; steps to increase the total volume and the share of manu fac tu red imports; removal of quota controls on 12 products; expansion of import quotas on oranges and citrus juices; mutual efforts with foreign countries to exploit demand for high-quality beef; increased opportunities for foreign suppliers in Japanese Govern- ment p rocu remen t; and simplification of import inspec- tion. 2. Measures affecting payments. Expansion of credit availabilities to finance imports; cooperation in inter- 4 On J a n u a ry 1, 1979 the basis of the t rans fo rma t ion control was changed f rom a ce r ta in propor t ion of to tal increases to a certain propor- t i on of the total amoun t. •" On J a n u a ry 17, 1979, the 100 per cent ma rg inal reserve requ i rement was reduced to 50 per cent; it was abolished on F eb ru a ry 10, 1979. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN national efforts to curb excessive competition in export credits; expansion of official development aid; and liberalization of the foreign exchange control system. This would include relaxation of standard settlement rules; an increase in the ceilings for remittances; liberali- zation of regulations concerning foreign currency depos- its by residents, of bank guarantees, and of gold trans- actions; and relaxation of restrictions on forward foreign exchange transactions. A new foreign exchange control law based on the principle that all transactions would be free unless specifically prohibited would be prepared. March 4. Japan cut tariffs on 318 items by a weighted average of 23 per cent, in advance of the conclusion of the Tokyo Round negotiations. March 8. Japan agreed to restrict the shipment in 1978 of passenger automobiles and light commercial vehicles to the United Kingdom to the same number of units as in 1977. March 11. An emergency import and financing pro- gram designed to increase imports included the following measures: promotion of imports of commercial a ircraft for leasing to less developed countries to be financed through the foreign currency loan system of the Export- Import Bank of Japan; the stockpiling of crude oil in currently unused tankers; and the stockpiling of imports of nickel, pelletized iron ore, u ran ium ore, and other important materials. March 15. A reserve requirement of 100 per cent was imposed on increases in free-yen deposits over the daily average level of February 1978, to take effect on March 18. March 16. Nonresidents were precluded from pur- chasing Japanese bonds with a maturity of less than five years and one month remaining to maturity. April 1. The balance of payments adjustment measures and exchange control liberalization measures announced on January 13 were implemented. April 15. The MITI announced guidelines concerning the export of sensitive items including motor vehicles, steel, color television receivers, ships, motorcycles, and copying machines. May 20. A new long-term import financing scheme through the Export-Import Bank of Japan was announced. May 22. A new import financing scheme was insti- tuted by the Bank of Japan to refinance bank bills backed by import settlement bills as collateral. May 24. The Ministry of Finance announced expanded swap quotas for foreign banks operating in Japan. June 1. The Ministry of Finance announced that the maximum period for import usance was extended from 120 days to 140 days. July 1. The Ministry of Finance began giving blanket approval to applications by Japanese foreign exchange banks wishing to lend abroad. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 37, 1978) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The mid-rate of the Jordan dinar for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1978 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$3.4247 and US$3.4014, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.6779 and <£ stg. 1.6667, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the London market. No forward exchange transactions take place. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, within per- mitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising representatives of the Ministries of Indus try and Trade and of Finance and Customs and the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Secu- rity Committee is empowered to amend existing regula- tions or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Egypt must be made in U.S. dollars through clearing accounts under a special bilateral payments arrangement with that country. There is also a reciprocal line of credit in U.S. dollars between the Central Banks of Jordan and Turkey. Payments to other countries may be made in any cur- rency. Proceeds from exports (except of Jordanian goods to neighboring Arab countries or up to JD 500, excluding fruits and vegetables, to other countries and re-exported goods of foreign origin up to JD 1,500 in value) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan, or in Jordan dinars f rom a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. 1 Belgian f ranc s, deutsche m a r k, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. These accounts may be credited only with approved funds; the approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to non- resident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with author- ized banks. Balances on these accounts may be with- drawn freely in convertible currency and the interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Jordan ian nationals residing in Jordan may ma in ta in foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan provided that such deposit accounts are credited with foreign currencies remitted f rom abroad and provided that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 5,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may open accounts in foreign currencies without limits for a period of up to three years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 5,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 f rom any source, some imports from Romania, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the export- ing coun try (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring coun tr ies), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Minis- try of Industry and Trade, except for certain items3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of Industry and Trade (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an indus- trial firm) or by the appropriate ministry. Importers of tea and certain other goods must obtain a specified minimum proportion of their requirements from Indian sources. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit which is granted automatically when 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; some alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages; c igare t tes; diesel-engined cars, trucks, and buses; and mili- ta ry un i fo rm s. Certain of these commodities may be imported, how- ever, f rom Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agricultural commodities may be prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fa t s; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; super- phosphates; dry ba t ter ies; guns; firecrackers; and wireless transmission and reception appara tus other than televisions and radios. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN an import license has been obtained; the importer hold- ing an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which normally is given for essential imports only. Most imported commodities are subject to an import duty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. In addition, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United K ingdom ). With this exception, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.4 No limit exists on the remit- tance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries, but the prior approval of the Central Bank is required. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for chil- dren under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted, once a year; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United Kingdom) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin, and any amount in foreign means of payment. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tour- ists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered within six months of shipment. Exempt from this requirement are the proceeds from exports of foreign goods with a value of less than JD 1,500, of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries, and up to JD 500 from exports (excluding fruits and vege- tables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coin.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits from' approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in any convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in any convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accord- ingly. The Companies Registration Law provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted non- resident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, premiums, and interest are trans- ferable in any convertible currency. * All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 5 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold The Central Bank has issued three gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numis- matists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1978 January 29. The guarantee deposit requirement, equ iva lent to 10 per cent of the value of the exchange permit, for imports of raw materials for processing and re-export, was canceled. February 7. Jordanian residents were permitted to open accounts in foreign currencies with Jordanian banks up to an aggregate amount equivalent to JD 5,000. JORDAN Depositors were permitted to draw on such accounts without prior permission. The accounts could be replen- ished only by transfers from abroad. Jordanians who had worked abroad for more than three years and had decided to return to Jordan were permitted to open accounts in foreign currencies with local banks for any amount. Such accounts could be operated freely but they might be replenished only by transfers from abroad. Three years af ter the date of opening the account, deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 5,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. February 25. The repatriation requirement for foreign exchange earned from exports to Arab countries of processed goods (for which raw materials had originally been impor ted), was canceled. July 1. Agreement was reached on a reciprocal line of credit of US$4 million between the Central Bank of Jordan and the Central Bank of Turkey. July 23. Authorized banks were instructed not to charge more than 0.25 per cent commission when supplying foreign exchange to their customers. The same requirement was imposed on money changers on August 7. November 28. Authorized banks and financial insti- tutions in Jordan were permitted to extend loans in foreign exchange both in Jordan and abroad. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling which is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1, w i th margins of less than 0.5 per cent. The mid-rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency quoted by the Central Bank, is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates are set at 0.1 per cent below and 0.2 per cent above, respectively, the rate thus determined. On December 29, 1978 buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 7.3963 and K Sh 7.4186, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The rates for the Uganda shilling are set at par. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Govern- ment. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks in sterling and U.S. dollars, to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; com- mercial banks may cover their forward exchange con- tracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning has delegated the adm in is tra t ion of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority for approving payments for imports of goods not listed in Import Schedules I-IV with an invoiced value not exceeding K Sh 4,000, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies; appli- cations for scheduled imports are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the 1 Bu rundi f rancs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss f rancs, and Zambian kwacha. 244 Director of Trade and Supplies before shipment. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corpora- tion, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agricultural com- modities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. With Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya formed part of the East African Community, but after the Community was effectively dissolved early in 1977, Kenya treats residents of Tanzania and Uganda on the same basis as all other nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than Rho- desia and South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Re- ceipts f rom countries other than Rhodesia may be ob- tained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. All pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remit- tances to South Africa also are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia and South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such coun- tries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than Rhodesian and South A f r ican currency) and gold by nonresidents to author- ized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa or Rhodesia) may be used for approved domestic expen- ditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya;2 the redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Some imports from all sources are pro- 2 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution hibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. Many goods may be freely imported f rom other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya Na t ional Trading Corporation, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are four commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued by the Director of Trade and Supplies through the Central Bank; applica- tions must be submitted before firm orders are placed. Imports of goods on open general license require an exchange allocation license, which is given automati- cally, and must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules require a spe- cific import license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been ob- tained, foreign exchange is granted free ly for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quotas reflecting past imports of goods in Schedule II. No foreign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. From time to time, exemptions may be granted f rom the quotas estab- lished under Schedules II and IV and f rom the pro- hibitions of Schedule III. Applications for foreign ex- change allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been ob- tained f rom the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to provide exchange automatically, but normally not prior to cus- toms entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred pay- ment terms, and for imports of machinery and equ ip- ment which are regarded as a contribution toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania and Uganda, most imports with a pro forma invoice value in excess of K Sh 20,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company acting for the Cen- tral Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clear- ance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been re- ceived. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Some imports are subject to a temporary import deposit requirement. Importation of a number of commodities is approved on payment of a refundab le deposit of 100 per cent of the c. & f. value. KENYA For some commodities the deposit is 25 per cent of the c. & f. va lue and some commodities are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cu r rent payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amoun ts above these limits as well as other cu r rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic yea r3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Cen- tral Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33% per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit f u n ds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that the ir total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expa tr ia tes who have stayed for over four years may con t inue to rem it from salaries as above, up to the end of the ten th year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to t rans fer additional savings upon emigration w i th in that period. Remittances to South Afr ica, other than certain pensions, are pro- hibited. Nonres ident ind iv idual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the perm i t ted t ran s fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to ma tu r i ty, a f ter which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely f rom rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived f rom rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the ex- change control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Companies with a nonresident equity holding may not remit a dividend of more than 10 per cent of equity capital and /or reserves. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round - t r ip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for ch i ldren between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel 3 Au thor ized dealers are not allowed to remit any f u n ds for educa- tional support to students at pr imary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academ ic year. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Africa. Business travelers to Tanzania and Uganda are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 650 a night for a maximum period of 25 days. There is a once-for-all pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adults which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance within the preceding two years. Non- resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya banknotes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenya residents for nongovern- ment travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange con- trol approval.4 Residents may not send abroad more than K Sh 200 a year as a cash gift without specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Export transactions must be registered with the Central Bank. Exports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be sub- ject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Most other goods may be exported without licenses. Coffee is exported through the Coffee Marketing Board. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within three months of ex- portation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.5 Exports of manu- fac tured goods are eligible for special incentives. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes, except those of Tanzania and Uganda. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to Rhodesia or South Africa are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings f rom salaries, an emigrant is 4 According to instructions issued on January 27, 1979, applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 per cent and 5 per cent of the value of the air and sea ticket, respectively, returnable only if the applications are not approved. 5 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. 246 allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country or residence. Of this sum K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate remittance and the re- mainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual installments not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The initial settling in allow- ance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not gen- erally restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. Local borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires ex- change control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require ex- change control approval. The import of the following items from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Imports of gold jewelry, as Schedule III items, require specific import licenses and foreign exchange is not allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes during 1978 February 23. A ban on imports of finished and semi- finished textiles, including secondhand clothes, similar ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA to those produced in Kenya became effective. The duty on imported yarn was raised by 100 per cent. May 26. The initial settling-in concession to emi- grants was increased from K Sh 50,000 to K Sh 100,000 and annual transfers were raised from K Sh 20,000 to K Sh 40,000. June 16. Under the provisions of a new Customs and Excise Act (replacing several Kenyan Acts and some East African Community Laws), there were many changes in rates of import duty. July 1. It was announced that all goods purchased by Kenyan importers must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Foreign exchange would not be made available for the insurance of imports. December 22. A temporary import deposit require- ment was introduced. Importation of a number of com- modities would be approved only on payment of a refundable deposit of 100 per cent of the c. & f. value. For some commodities the deposit would be 25 per cent of the c. & f. value and some commodities would be exempt f rom the deposit requirement. In addition, com- panies with a nonresident equity holding would not be permitted to remit a dividend of more than 10 per cent of equity capital and /or reserves. All sales of tickets to residents of Kenya for nongovernment travel outside Kenya became subject to exchange control approval. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate regime is broadly divided into the basic exchange rate, the Bank of Korea's buying and selling rates to foreign exchange banks, and the buying and selling rates of foreign exchange banks to customers. The basic ex- change rate of W 4 80 = US$1 is the legal floor rate, but the value of the won is represented by the tele- graphic transfer selling rate of foreign exchange banks to customers of W 485 = US$1. On December 30, 1978 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 483.10 and W 484.90, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buy- ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 483 and W 485, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Exchange certificates valid for 30 days may be issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign ex- change earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by residents. In practice, most foreign exchange proceeds are exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the fore ign exchange banks. Exchange certificates may be changed into equivalent foreign means of payment. Forward exchange transactions may be undertaken w i th in the limit of the net amount of the relevant trans- actions with exporters and importers for the cover of payments and receipts. Transactions with a maturity of up to one year may be concluded with the Bank of Korea, foreign banks, and other foreign exchange banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmer- chandise transactions, and capital transactions and trans- fers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used in each period. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above func- tions; it also regulates operations in the exchange mar- ket and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The for- eign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of fore ign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in specified for- eign exchange dealings. 248 The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are programmed separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Bank of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture f rom Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is re- quired for remittances from balances that have accrued f rom remuneration for services in Korea, fares paid for travel by air or ship, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom ab road ). The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as traders holding licenses for making export and import transactions, the airline, overseas construction, and some insurance companies, as well as enterprises in which foreign capital is invested, may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to operate in the Masan and Iri Free Export Zones also may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zones.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses 1 The list of prescribed currencies consists of the currencies of the 47 member countries of the IMF which have accepted the obligations of Article V I II of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, plus the Hong Kong do l lar and the Swiss franc. 2 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1979 all residents of Korea were allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are in a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On December 31, 1978, out of 1,097 basic items in the Cus- toms Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 3853 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw mate- rials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits ranging from 5 per cent to 50 per cent are required for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis and for goods subject to a tariff of 50 per cent or more.4 These requirements are met, for KFX imports, by a deposit of local currency at the time of applying for the import license. Advance deposits are retained until the bill of lading is released. The customs tar iff is a "flexible" ta r i f f. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1978 had not invoked this authority. A defense sur- charge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insur- ance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel and official travel. In addi- tion, exporters are authorized to use certain exchange earnings for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day, or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses, and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresidents must register foreign 3 With effect f rom January 1, 1979 this number was decreased to 344. 4 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1979 advance import deposits ranging from 5 per cent to 20 per cent were required* only for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis. KOREA exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to certain specified countries are pro- hibited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates, or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived f rom invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be exchanged for equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guaran- tee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea;5 such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 4,752 a gram at the end of 1978. 5 With effect f rom January 1, 1979 the import of gold for industrial or medical purposes required approval by a foreign exchange bank. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Changes during 1978 January 1. The permitted repayment period for imports on short-term credit was reduced from 120 days to 90 days. The minimum amount of an import trans- action was increased from US$10,000 to US$100,000, except for small and medium-sized industries, where the limit was set at US$20,000. January 1. Advance import deposit rates were reduced from the 10-40 per cent range for general items to 10 per cent and, for items subject to customs duties of 50 per cent or more, from 100 per cent to 40 per cent. January 4. The Government lowered the exchange rate applicable to domestic Cleans in support of exports from W 420 per US$1 to W 400 per US$1. The support fund rate for the purchase of finished export goods for storage was lowered from W 400 per US$1 to W 380 per US$1, and the rate for purchasing raw materials for exports was decreased f rom W 4 50 per US$1 to W 430 per US$1. January 4. The Bank of Korea increased the number of raw material import items eligible for won currency import f inanc ing from 12 to 27. January 4. The Government abolished the import-link system, whereby the import of certain items (mainly electronic components) for domestic production was linked to export performance. Also, crude oil was moved f rom the restricted import list to the automatic approval list. January 4. The Ministry of Finance revised the flexi- ble tariff rates for 18 of the 46 items for which special tariffs applied. The tariff rates were lowered on 12 items and raised on 6 items. January 4. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shifted 30 items (CCCN) from the prohibited or restricted lists to the automatic approval list. By this measure the number of automatic approval items was increased to 591. January 11. The maximum interest rates payable on foreign exchange loans were reduced from the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) plus 1.75 per cent to LIBOR plus 1.0 per cent for loans with a maturity of three years or less, to LIBOR plus 1.25 per cent for loans with a maturity of three to five years, to LIBOR plus 1.5 per cent for loans with a maturity of five to seven years, and was maintained at LIBOR plus 1.75 per cent for loans with a maturity of more than seven years. February 15. The foreign exchange control regula- tions were changed to allow Korean business corpora- tions to issue bonds denominated in foreign exchange in the international capital markets to raise funds for the import of capital goods and overseas investment. Eligibility would be limited to firms with a paid-up capital of more than W 10 billion that have paid a dividend of over 10 per cent during each of the past three years. 250 February 15. Traders holding licenses for making export and import transactions were allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts in banks. In addition, in order to promote group emigration, the Government permitted emigrants to carry as much foreign exchange as the Minister for Health and Social Affairs considered neces- sary for their settlement abroad. Under the previous regulations, each emigrant over 14 years old had been allowed to carry up to US$2,000 out of the country, and each child US$1,000. March 8. The Ministry of Finance raised the ceiling for automatic approval of overseas investment by Korean enterprises from US$300,000 to US$500,000. March 25. It was made mandatory for all overseas construction earnings to be deposited in foreign currency with local banks until January 4, 1979. April 1. The Ministry of Finance announced the extension of the list of designated currencies from 19 to 49 and also permitted the use of all other currencies for payment purposes. The new list of designated currencies comprised the currencies of all 47 countries which have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, plus the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc. April 20. The Government announced plans to liberal- ize the import of foreign technology. Technology imports for seven major industrial sectors—machinery, shipbuilding, electronics, electricity, metals, chemicals, and textiles—would be given automatic approval if the contract period was no longer than three years and the royalty cost for each project did not exceed a lump sum payment of US$100,000; otherwise, they would be referred to the ministries concerned. Technology imports for other industries would continue to be subject to approval by the ministries concerned. April 21. The Ministry of Finance lowered the max- imum interest rate payable on foreign exchange loans by domestic and foreign banks. For loans with a maturity of more than seven years, the surcharge over LIBOR was reduced from 1.75 per cent to 1.125 per cent; for maturi- ties between five and seven years, from 1.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent; for maturities between three and five years, from 1.25 per cent to 1 per cent; and for maturi- ties of three years or less, from 1 per cent to 0.875 per cent. May 1. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced the shift of 50 items (CCCN) from the pro- hibited list to the automatic approval list; 25 items in the restricted list, plus 58 subitems were also transferred to the automatic approval list. Some of these items would be subject to surveillance so that restrictions could be reintroduced if domestic producers were seriously affected. This shift removed all items from the pro- hibited list, leaving 431 items in the restricted list and 666 items in the automatic approval list. July 1. Seven items were transferred from the restricted list to the automatic approval list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA July 7. The advance import deposit requirement of 10 per cent on general imports paid for through sight letters of credit or documents against payment was abolished. July 7. The standard allowances for business and official travel were increased, as were allowances to cover the expenses of overseas offices of enterprises. Tourists and foreign residents departing Korea were permitted to exchange for foreign currency any amount of won for which they had proof of exchange. July 25. The banks' implicit rates for loans against export-related bills were raised by W 20 per US$1 in each category (see entry for January 4, above). The ceilings for export financing were abolished. September 12. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try announced the shift to the automatic approval list of 39 items and 260 subitems. On a CCCN basis the num- ber of automatic approval items thus increased to 712 (65 per cen t ). Forty-two of these items or subitems were, however, made subject to surveillance. December 15. The Government announced a revision of the foreign exchange regulations to take effect on January 1, 1979. The new measures included an authorization to domestic banks to lend to nonresidents and the extension of the privilege of holding foreign cur- rency deposit accounts to all residents of Korea. There was also a substantial simplification of procedures. December 18. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try announced the revision of the export-import technical notice for the first part of 1979. With effect from January 1, 1979, 41 items would be shifted from the restricted category to the automatic approval category, which would thus be increased to 753 items. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. Exchange rates are computed f rom the value of the Kuwaiti dinar, which is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's major trading partners. For exchange transactions with local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets margins of 0.0625 per cent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 28, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.27163 and KD 0.27197, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign curren- cies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Communications. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foods tu f fs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. All imports f rom Israel, including imports of Israeli manu fac tu re and those that contain Israeli materials or are manufac tured by companies 252 financed by Israeli capital or by companies maintaining a relationship with Israeli firms that is deemed beneficial to Israel, are prohibited. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa also are prohibited. Imports of a few items (mainly oxygen, certain steel pipes, pork or food- stuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old, and used cars over five years old, excluding the year of manu fac tu re) are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid for freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. There are no limita- tions on the export of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) are prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Rho- desian dollars, or South African rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except in Israeli, Rhodesian, and South Afr ican currencies. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry, however, may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to import duty at 4 per cent. Changes during 1978 June 25. The import duty on wooden doors and alu- m inum windows, doors, and sidings was reduced from 15 per cent to 4 per cent. December 1. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try prohibited the import of used cars more than five years old, excluding the year of manufacture. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 37 ,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic is the Kip of Liberation. On December 31, 1978 the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Laos (the central bank) was KL400 = US$1; on that date the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KL 396 and KL 404, respectively, per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all exchange trans- actions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the National Bank, handles all foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other trans- actions are handled by the National Bank. All applica- tions for imports have to be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance. Most foreign trade has been nationalized. Export transactions require authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exchange control is administered by the National Bank. The Societe Lao Import-Export (SLIE), which is a part of the Department of Foreign Trade, carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of each export or import trans- action. The Department of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce purchases imported commodities from the SLIE for domestic distribution and pays the import taxes. Merchandise received under foreign aid is valued at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on only 80 per cent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but in principle the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic has bilateral trading arrangements, cov- ering all commodity trade, with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam. The unit of account is the U.S. dollar, and each account is fully settled in commodities at the end of the year. Imports and Import Payments Only essential imports are permitted, based on need and the availability of funds. Imports of all other goods are effectively prohibited. An annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, based on requests furnished by each government ministry, province, and state enter- 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling. 254 prise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw materials, machinery, and commodities of basic necessity, including rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months during the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the fiscal year if it is not utilized; state enterprises may modify their import requirements during the year, subject to the approval of the Comite du Plan. State enterprises must transfer their export earnings to the National Bank but 20 per cent of these earnings may be kept by the enterprise in a special account in the National Bank; the special account can be used freely by the exporting enterprise to import machinery and spare parts, as well as to cover certain operational expenses in foreign exchange. These amounts are not included in the annual import plan; however, no general imports are permitted out of these retained earnings. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Government's payments in foreign exchange during the fiscal year. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization. The full proceeds from all exports must be surrendered to the National Bank. There is an export tax of 10 per cent on all exports except logs, which are taxed at 25 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in the Lao People's Democratic Re- public must be surrendered, as must all other receipts f rom invisibles. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold With the exception of the monetary authorities, residents are prohibited from buying or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1978 May 1. The exchange rate of the kip of liberation was changed f rom KL 200 = US$1 to KL 400 = US$1 and it was announced that the new rate would be applied to all transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 57, 2978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to main- tain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 29, 1978 the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 3.005 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes for a given month on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies, particularly customs duties, is based on the middle rate of those currencies during the previous month. For December 1978 this rate was LL 2.97 per US$1. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements1 may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (ma in ly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agri- cultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or dur ing a specified period of the year. The former group includes wheat, which may in principle be imported only by the Government, and citrus fru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 k i lograms), olive oil, and peanuts; the latter group consists of squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, pears, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and telephone wires and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported free ly without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, 1 Czechoslovakia and Poland. There are also inoperative payments ag reemen ts w i th Egyp t, Gu inea, and Roman ia. LL 1.5 per mill for import values between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Import surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic bever- ages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilo- grams; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilograms; and 40 piastres a kilogram for vehicles over 2,000 kilograms. The surcharge on watches is 5 per cent, that on costume jewelry is 7 per cent, and that on certain wines and liqueurs is 11 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to North Korea require a license. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market-. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold through the free market. Banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. They have been requested not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents unless this serves to finance foreign trade transactions. Banks are authorized to maintain net foreign currency positions only up to twice the amount of their own funds, and their net foreign currency positions (claims and liabili- ties separately) are subject to limitation. Under a "free zone" bank ing facility, the commercial banks are exempt f rom reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits of nonresidents. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new fore ign investments are insured against losses arising f rom noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 per cent of the insured value. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of forei8n «old coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of «* Consumer. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. LEBANON Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Lesotho is the South African Rand,1 which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at the middle rate of US$1.15 = R 1.00. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are those quoted by the South African Reserve Bank; on December 31, 1978 the rates were US$1.1529 and US$1.1471, respectively, per R 1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currencies con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Leso- tho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Commissioner of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance controls all external currency trans- actions. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions and insurance agents are issued by the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Bo- tswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa (other than certain agricultural commodities) do not in general require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union; imports from countries of the customs union are recorded for statistical purposes. Imports of goods from coun- tries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle 1 On May 9, 1978 the authorities announced the introduction of a national currency, the maluti, equal in value to the rand (which would also remain legal tende r ). The maluti is not yet in circulation. the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs entry. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. All imports into the customs union, except those covered by a GATT binding or other agreements, are subject to an import surcharge of 12.5 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to estab- lished limits, such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manu fac tu r ing activities approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may transfer R 10,000 outside Lesotho as a settling-in allowance, and those with larger assets may t rans fer 50 per cent of the total, up to R 30,000 for a fam i ly or R 10,000 for an individual. Any excess must be credited to a Blocked Account although emigrants may use such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a fam i ly or R 10,000 a single person to sub- scribe to nonresident bonds. The free transfer of income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual max imum of R 100,000 a fam i ly un i t. An emigrant fam i ly or a person may export one automobile only, with a max imum value of R 10,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes during 1978 March 29. The common import surcharge levied by the customs union was reduced from 15 per cent to 12.5 per cent. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afri- can States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Orders for the importation of paints, rubber footwear, car batteries, wheelbarrows, household candles, toilet tissues, paper napkins, brooms and brushes, crown corks, nails, petroleum jelly, and kitchen towels are channeled through the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Trans- portation, which must approve such imports. Imports of cement are not being licensed, and imports of sugar have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. In practice, petroleum is imported only by the Liberian Petroleum Refining Company, although a private company is the sole distributor of aviation fuel. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, pre- cious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rub- ber, and certain other items, such as arms and ammu- nition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of export,proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 per cent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and machin- ery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a further two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at hpme or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1978 April 26. By a decision of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation, the importation of sugar was suspended in order to protect domestic production. October 18. The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation announced that roofing and galvan- ized nails would be subject to import control. All orders were to be channeled through the Ministry. November 1. The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation became responsible for orders for imports of petroleum jelly. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1978 were LD 0.29531 buying, and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the rates were LD 0.60241 buy- ing, and LD 0.60543 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and ex- ports is determined by the Secretariat of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permitted under the existing exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earnings of such non- residents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on bal- ances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors under- tak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank. Pay- ments received by contractors in respect of their con- tracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remit- tances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar y e a r ); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify for remit- tance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Decision No. 68 of 1978 governing imports provides, inter alia, that imports for trade purposes would be undertaken exclusively by the fol- lowing: public institutions, corporations and companies, cooperative societies, and popularly managed firms. All imports became subject to licensing. All trading undertakings, other than those mentioned above, were required to liquidate their contracts by December 31, 1978 (this period was later extended). The Decision also entitles resident and nonresident firms undertaking development projects to import items needed to further the execution of the project. The import of some items, including alcoholic bever- ages and narcotics, is prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities were restricted up to December 31, 1978. These included f ru it juice, infant food, diet items for diabetics, biscuits, sweets, chocolate, cheese, butter, cream, vegetable oil, camel fodder, cement, iron rein- forcements, timber for building purposes, sanitary arti- cles, taps, tiles, plaster, electric household appliances, television sets and accessories, video sets, detergents, fu rn i tu re, batteries, weapons, and explosives. Only government agencies and joint stock companies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy f rom a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, w i th in two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the va lua- tion. The approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. Deferred payments ( for up to 90 days af ter customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs du ty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine personal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, including family assistance and gifts. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers to residents undertaking studies abroad, up to limits prescribed for various countries, plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remittances from nonresident accounts maintained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those workers whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. A nonresident wife or the wife of a nonresident, when employed in the country, are each permitted to remit abroad up to 90 per cent of net salary each month. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Applica- tions for amounts in excess of these limits must be sub- mitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure certain goods, the value of which is not deducted from the balances in their nonresident accounts; a nonresident may also export one automobile during his stay in the country. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 260 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the country, but are intended for immediate expenses upon return. Resi- dents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained f rom any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya. Add i t ional amoun ts may be granted in special circum- stances. During 1978 pilgrims were entitled to a special quota of LD 800 in addition to the basic travel allow- ance. For business travel, residents may take out the equ iva lent of LD 1,000 a trip, subject to a max imum of LD 2,500 in a calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan dinars. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for commodities which are not of L ibyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of ship- men t. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing ab ro ad ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securi- ties, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic develop- ment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up a f ter March 20, 1970 is permitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased production in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in export- ing the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees and 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be sold only to Libyans, other than in exceptional circumstances. The net sales proceeds after tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Resi- dents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. Residents taking up perma- nent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. In May 1978 a decision was issued setting up a Commercial Gold Fund and empowering it to import processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals. The Gold Fund sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced f rom time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold k subject to an import duty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1978 October 8. Decision No. 68 of 1978 governing imports was issued. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. Between its currency and the French franc, the inter- vention currency, Madagascar maintains a fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02, and the official buying and selling rates for the French franc are FMG 49.75 and FMG 50.25, respectively, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for seven other currencies1 based on the buying and selling rates for the French franc in various exchange markets. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1978 were FMG 207.66 and FMG 209.64, respectively, per US$1. The authorized banks are not permitted to main- tain an exchange position in any foreign currency. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar itself are con- sidered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury, External Finance Office, which also super- vises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses, including those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by the Directorate of External Trade or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal with the Central Bank only in the quoted currencies. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. These accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized trans- actions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Mada- gascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder, and FMG 10,000 a day for each accom- panying family member. 1 Belgian f rancs, deutsche ma rk, Italian l i re, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 262 Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce before being permitted to engage in import activities. Imports are grouped into two broad categories: those authorized within the frame- work of the annual import program, and those that are prohibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enterprises and other importers who are final users of the product. Imports of fru it juices are conditional upon purchases of domestic f ru it juices. The import of certain items, including alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government- owned trading firms (SONACO, SINPA, and Roso). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before shipment when a documentary credit is opened). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For some transactions the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism equivalent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under ten ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mada- gascar must be surrendered. For business travel foreign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank- notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their family in Mada- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose family lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for both cate- gories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign banknotes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office; these include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally must become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All export trans- actions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,2 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Planning (i.e., the Directorate of the Treasury). The total or partial 2 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. MADAGASCAR liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualifying for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and numis- matic items up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be sur- rendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.054074 = SDR 1. The middle ra te of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Ma lawi is determined on the basis of the da i ly calcu- la t ions of the U.S. dollar-SDR ra te. On December 29, 1978 the Reserve Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 0.8059 and MK 0.8120, respec- tively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Canad ian dollar, the deutsche ma rk, and the pound sterling, which are de te rm ined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under powers delegated to it by the M in is ter of Finance. Import policy is fo rmu la ted by the M in is ter of Trade, Industry, and Tourism, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents (o ther th an residents of Rhodesia) may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account ma in ta ined by the recipient or in any convertible fore ign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments f rom residents of other countries (except Rhodesia) may be received in Ma lawi kwacha f rom a nonresident account or in any convertible fore ign cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries (except Rhodesia) are designated non- resident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of any convertible fore ign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Ma lawi kwacha by residents to countries other than Rhodesia, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make paymen ts to resi- dents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currenc ies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currenc ies. 264 of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds f rom the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi and (2) t rans fe rs f rom another Rhodes ian Ex ternal Accoun t. The accounts may be debited w i th ( 1) paymen ts to residents of Malawi for any purpose; (2) paymen ts to the account holder wh i le t empo r a r i ly s tay ing in Ma law i; (3) t ran s fe rs to ano ther Rhodes ian External Account; and (4) t ran s fe rs to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with au tho r ized banks by residents of any coun t ry other than Ma law i. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the inves tment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manne r. The interest on Blocked Account balances is free ly t r an s f e r ab le to the account holder's coun try of residence. Imports and Import Payments The s ta tu to ry basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minis- ter of Trade, Indus try, and Tourism to regulate the impor t, export, d is tr ibu t ion, purchase, and sale, and to set prices, of any goods. The import f rom Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported under an open general license when or ig ina t ing in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT (except Po land ). Imports originating in the Republic of China are treated similarly but require an ind iv idual license. With respect to o t h e r' countries ( inc lud ing Po l and ), an import license is required for all commodities except certain items that are free from licensing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts under MK 50 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports from all countries must be made af ter the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for fo rmal approval subject only to the presentation of rele- vant import documents. Any transfer of funds in antici- pation of imports is prohibited, except with the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Payments 2 Cer ta in ag r icu l tu ral and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, p r in t ing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist ne ts, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. A surtax of 15 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespec- tive of origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes such as travel, is provided by authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. Annual allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the pre- ceding three years. Allocations are subject to a com- bined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, sub- ject to certain limits, for other purposes such as educa- tion, medical treatment, and family remittances. Appli- cations for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months af ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities3 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. 3 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. MALAWI Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repay- ment are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned com- panies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange which accrues to them. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max imum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure f rom Malawi, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Applications for all emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that there is excessive recourse to local borrowing, and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital f rom abroad. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1978 January 1. A tariff of 5 per cent was imposed on all imports of capital goods. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote relative stability in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were M$2.2075 and M$2.2079, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malay- sia,1 the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks, except for the repayment of foreign loans and the payment of interest on such loans. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa must be obtained according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a max imum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. 1 The three territories of Malaysia are Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Labuan is a free port. 266 Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted subject only to the comple- tion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$ 1,000 and up to M$l million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$l million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli, Rhodesian, and South Afr ican currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South Afr ican Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified as from July 1, 1977, although a few restrictions still exist between the terri- tories of Malaysia to protect local industries. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed f rom time to time. Imports f rom Israel, South Africa, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by any one of these countries are prohibited. Imports from the People's Republic of China are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except for items subject to quantitative restriction. Imports from the German Democratic Republic and North Korea also require specific licenses. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific licensing with quantitative restriction. Movements of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of live animals (except sheep and goa ts), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Burma, Indonesia, Democratic Kampuchea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam require a specific license. Imports of primates are pro- hibited from all sources, except under specific license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment for permitted imports is allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the stand- ard rate of tax is 5 per cent but for certain luxury goods it is 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, sub- ject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$ 1,000. Unless special per- mission is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malay- sian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. Non- resident travelers are allowed to take out foreign cur- rency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The customs areas and export control sys- tems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except where exports are valued at more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but sub- ject to a maximum period of six months f rom the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malay- sia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and licenses for these and a few other items (such as fertilizers and pig iron) may be administratively denied. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," all com- modities used in barter trade, and other goods as speci- fied in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles. Only receipts from MALAYSIA exports are subject to exchange control. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 1,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of invest- ments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amounts above M$ 1,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been materially increased in value by skilled craftsmanship. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trading in gold coin other than the following gold coins of Malaysian currency: M$100 (Tunku Abdul Rahman), M$200 (Third Malaysia P lan ), M$200 (Ninth South East Asian Games), M$250 (Employees Provident Fund ), M$500 (Wildlife Conservation), and the $150 gold coin of Singapore currency. Resident and non- resident travelers, however, may bring in or take out, on their person, one piece each of the M$100 (Tunku Abdul R ahm an ), M$200 (Third Malaysia P lan), and M$250 (Employees Provident Fund) gold coins. A traveler may also bring in on his person one M$500 (Wildlife Conservation) gold coin. The export of this M$500 gold coin in any manner is prohibited. The import and export of the M$200 (Ninth South East Asian Games) gold coin, however, is unrestricted. In addition, each traveler is allowed to bring in from any country outside Malaysia one S$150 gold coin issued by the Singapore Board of Commissioners of Currency, and each traveler may take out one such coin, but only to Singapore. Licensed goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control authorities to purchase certain quanti- ties of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufac ture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Trade 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA and Industry. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is normally not given except for imports by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genuine require- ments of goldsmiths for m anu f a c tu r ing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial use. Imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender sys- tem; successful tenderers must pay a prem ium to the Government. Imports are no longer du t iab le and a 5 per cent su r tax, although payable, was not collected on gold imports throughout 1978. However, a sales tax of 5 per cent ad valorem is still in force. The sale of gold by domestic producers is subject only to the sales tax. Exports of gold in any fo rm, other than jewe lry, consti- tu t ing the personal effec ts of a traveler, are prohibited under the exchange control regulations; any export licenses that might be issued for gold or gold coin would requ i re in add i t ion the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1978 March 1. The export of certain types of timber logs was banned. June 22. The 7 per cent duty on imports of gold bu l l ion was abolished; import duties on diamonds and other precious stones were lowered. September 7. It was announced that licenses would be required for the import of certain types of explosives, bulbs for incandescent lamps, bicycle r ing locks, and drawer locks. September 21. The import du ty on Portland cement was raised f rom 1.97 ringgit a ton to 17 ringgit a ton. October 5. It was announced that licenses would no longer be required for imports of bicycles. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES1 (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed official exchange rate of Mai Rs 3.93 = US$1. This rate is used solely for government accounting purposes; in particular, it is used to calculate the domestic currency price of goods imported and exported by the State Trading Organization. There is also a fluctuating exchange rate in a free market conducted by the two commercial banks; on December 31, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Mai Rs 8.45 and Mai Rs 8.80, respectively, per US$1. The free market rate is applicable to all transactions of the private sector. U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and certain other foreign currencies circulate freely and may be used for domestic payments. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control No exchange control legislation has been issued. In the absence of a central bank, exchange and trade con- trols are administered by the Department of Finance, which also issues import and export licenses. wheat flour, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may make payments for all current invisibles through the free market. Payments by the public sector are made f rom the Government's foreign exchange account. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a monopoly, operated by the State Trading Organization, over the export of fresh and dried "Maldive fish." Private sector exports of all other domestic products require licenses. These are not normally withheld, but exporters are required to import commodities equivalent to the foreign exchange value of their exports within one year. Temporary exemption from this regulation can be obtained in connection with the export of new products. Export proceeds are freely disposable through the free market. Re-exports are exempt from both export licensing and the requirement of matching the transaction with fu tu re imports. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currencies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. In practice, all receipts by tourist resorts and guest houses are in U.S. dollars. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts f rom current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Imports are subject to licensing only if undertaken to match licensed exports of domestic products (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Import licenses, where required, are issued freely. Foreign exchange needed to effect payments for licensed and unli- censed imports by the private sector must be obtained in the free market. Most staples (including rice, sugar, Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the free market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval, and private ownership of land by residents and nonresidents is prohibited. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold do not require licenses. 1 Maldives became a member of the International Monetary Fund on January 13, 1978. No significant changes took place. Changes during 1978 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Mali is the Mali Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F 0.01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The official buying and selling rates for the French f ranc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French francs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose*bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except Mali itself, are considered foreign countries. The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral pay- ment agreement accounts are operated by the Develop- ment Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements.1 Since Mali is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. 1 Mali maintains bilateral accounts with People's Republic of China, Egypt, Hungary, Morocco, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. The payments arrangements with Hunga ry and Morocco are inoperative. 270 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports originating in a country of the West African Economic Community and some imports from EEC countries of basic necessities require only an import certificate. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, and imports f rom foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. A license is valid for six months, but, if necessary, may be extended for a further three months. Imports f rom the Republic of China, Israel, Korea, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the con- vertible area (defined as comprising all other countries, including the French Franc A rea ). Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne d'Import-Export (SoMmx) is the most important, having a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 All imports from and exports to countries that have pay- ments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX. The Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the import and export of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of that quota. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), which may be 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allotted on several occasions during the year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be sur- rendered. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 500,000 a trip.3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 200,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those from France and other Operations Account coun- tries, must be repatriated and surrendered within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports to countries outside the West African Economic Com- munity require individual licenses; those to countries of the West African Economic Community require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and that of meat and hides and skins for the Societe Malienne du Detail, des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and individuals. The marketing of cereals is the responsibility of OPAM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations MALI Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special con- trol measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Investment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, provid- ing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regulations. 8 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to per- sons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ma l ta is the Ma l ta Pound. The va lue of the Malta pound is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Malta pound and a trade- weighted basket of currencies representing Malta's important trading partners. The Central Bank of Ma l ta fixes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar, the intervention currency, by we igh t ing the var ia t ions in the closing quotations of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the previous day in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. A spread of 0.25 per cent is applied between the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 29, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.7529 and US$2.7461, respectively, per <£M 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for the deutsche ma rk, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 29, 1978 was <£ stg. 135.22 per <£M 100. The commercial banks' rates for curren- cies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance, Customs, and People's Financial Investments; trade controls are adm in- istered by the Director of Trade in the M in is try of Trade. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange has, in many cases, been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized dealers may also give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided they hold fu ll cover in Malta pound deposits for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency;1 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Malta pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may ma in ta in with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to non- residents, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any fore ign currency (including banknotes), and with Malta bank- notes mailed from abroad. External Accounts may be 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Malta pound. 272 debited freely for paymen ts to residents, for t rans fe rs to o ther External Accounts, for paymen ts in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any fore ign currency (including banknotes). Authorized dealers may also f ree ly open and ma in ta in foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts in fore ign currency to the account holder, with t rans fe rs f rom ano ther foreign currency account belonging to a non- resident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for t rans fe rs to other fo re ign currency accounts, and for t rans fe rs abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are subject to specific licensing. Imports of certain com- modities are either prohibited or restricted. Impor ts other than those that are not proh ib i ted and do not require a specific license may be made f ree ly under open general license. Imports subject to state t rad ing inc lude sugar, evaporated and condensed milk, cereals, and cement. Payments for all authorized impo r ts may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied w i th and that suppor t ing docu- ments, including the customs entry fo rm, are submitted to the in termed iary bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval au tho r i ty for most types of payment has been delegated to au thor ized banks. For residents there is a standard exchange allo- cation for tourist travel of the equivalent of <£M 250 a person a trip, and a business travel allowance of <£M 250 a trip or <£M 30 a day (for up to 30 days a trip), whichever is the larger. Nonresident travelers may import an unlimited amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them. In addition, any traveler may export up to £M 25 in Malta notes and coin. There is also an allowance for educational expenses abroad of <£M 3,000 a person for an academic year.2 Applications for allow- ances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit cap i tal out- flow is involved. The t rans fer of profits, d iv idends, and interest f rom approved foreign investments requires Central Bank permission, which is normally given, a f ter compliance with certain forma l i t ies. L ife insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted w i th nonresidents - For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue l iv ing there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, pro- vided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Main- tenance remittances to beneficiaries abroad are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 80 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are subject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin which are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to <£M 50. Ctipital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital na tu re require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in'Ma l ta by nonresidents,3 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Appli- cations for the acquisition of property for use as .a residence by individuals who do not already hold prop- erty in Malta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign invest- ments up to the equivalent of <£M 500 a person a calen- dar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of per- sonal real estate situated outside Malta in excess of the <£M 500 limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emi- grate may transfer abroad up to <£M 7,500 for each family; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. 3 For the purpose of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) indi- viduals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of residence or of business out- side Malta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, and whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. MALTA Gold Malta has issued 22 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The import of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufac- tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are per- mitted to import gold (bullion and coin) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import duty. Changes during 1978 January 1. A new protocol came into force governing EEC trading arrangements with Malta over the next three years. Between 1978 and 1980 most industrial goods from Malta would have duty-free entry into the EEC, whereas previously they were eligible, for only a 70 per cent reduction in duty. Imports to Malta from the EEC would continue to benefit from the tariff con- cessions actually applied on July 1, 1977. April 14. Some embroidery products and certain piece goods and manufactures were added to the list of items requiring an import license; bleached cotton sheeting and glass cloths were deleted from the list. April 28. Crates for the distribution of milk, oil, or wine were added to the list of items requiring an import license. June 27. Shirts of all kinds were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. July 11. Dishwashers, flushing units, and automatic washing machines were added to the list of goods requir- ing import licenses. July 18. Hair shampoos and certain kinds of creams and oils were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. July 21. Roasted and /or salted almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts, and other mixed nuts were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. August 25. Ties were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. September 15. Certain automotive electrical accessories were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. October 3. The import by any traveler of Malta notes and coin was limited to <£M 50. October 20. Computers and electronic data process- ing equipment were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. November 1. The Financial Protocol between the EEC and Malta, signed on March 4, 1976, entered into force. November 10. All imports of British textiles were banned. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Mauritania is the Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Netherlands guilder, the Spanish peseta, and the pound sterling. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mauritania's foreign trade settlements and are revised monthly. The opening spot rates of the basket currencies against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are then compared with the exchange rates prevailing on specified base dates. The arithmetic average of the sum of the weighted variations arising from this comparison results in either a plus or a minus overall variation of the U.S. dollar in terms of the other basket currencies; this variation is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate prevailing on June 29, 1973 (UM 46.041 = US$1), thus obtaining the reference rate for the dollar on the specific day. The daily exchange rate for 16 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were UM 45.81 and UM 46.50, respectively, per US$1. A special exchange rate applies to transactions in banknotes between the ouguiya and the French franc, the CFA franc, and the Mali franc corresponding to UM 1 = F 0.10. On December 29, 1978 this was equivalent to a rate between the ouguiya and the U.S. dollar of UM 43.31 = US$1. Mauritania confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya within margins of 4.5 per cent; at present, it applies margins of zero per cent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Im- port and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, CFA francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 274 licenses require exchange control approval by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic banknotes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment without Central Bank approval, but payments to and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign banknotes without special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Imports from all countries require an import license. Only holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import trans- actions. The National Import-Export Corporation (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except in the case of imports "without payment." After the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting f.o.b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance Com- pany (SMAR ). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments to authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten ). There are special arrangements for travel to neighboring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying per- centages, according to family status. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds AH exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require an export license and the approval of the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, exports of cattle of SONICOB, and exports of iron ore and copper concen- trates of SNIM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. MAURITANIA All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct invest- ments in Maur i tan ia2 and Mauritanian direct invest- ments abroad,3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within a period of 15 days from receipt of the declaration. The fu ll or partial liquidation of inward or outward invest- ment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Mauri- tan ian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by resi- dents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Law No. 76-251 of October 16, 1976) provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt f rom this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and of manufactured articles con- ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1978 September 28. A fixed exchange rate was introduced for transactions in banknotes between the ouguiya and the French franc, the CFA franc, and the Mali f ranc corresponding to UM 1 = F 0.10. This rate was equivalent to UM 43.31 = US$1, compared with the prevailing middle rate of UM 46.15 = US$1. 2 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mau r i tan ia. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at Mau Rs 7.713759 = SDR 1 or SDR 0.129638 = Mau Re 1. The mid-rates of the Mauritian rupee for the pound sterling, the interven- tion currency, and the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Maur i t ius are determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the pound sterling-SDR rate and the U.S. dollar-SDR rate, respectively. The Bank of Maur i t ius applies margins of 0.125 per cent to the buy ing rate and 0.25 per cent to the selling rate in respect of exchange transactions in sterling and U.S. dollars, based on the fixed Mauritian rupee-SDR rate. On December 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Maur i t ius for sterling were Mau Rs 12.0566 and Mau Rs 12.10, respectively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 5.9033 and Mau Rs 5.9266, respec- tively, per US$1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Maur i t ius for these curren- cies. On December 29, 1978 the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for sterling were Mau Rs 12.0266 and Mau Rs 12.1433, respectively, per «£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 5.8833 and Mau Rs 5.9666, respectively, per US$1 ( f or transactions in excess of US$12,000). Buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appro- priate cross rates in the London market. A stamp duty of 36 per cent is applied to outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds) and purchases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes Mauritius dis- tinguishes between Sterling Area countries2 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area may be 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define fore ign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 2 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. 276 received in rupees f rom a Sterling Area Account in Mau r i t ius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an Ex ternal Account in Mau r i t ius, in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments f r om residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees f rom an External Account in Mau r i t iu s, in sterling f rom an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling Area,2 may be credited with ( 1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments f rom Exter- nal Accounts held in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodes ian cu r rency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauri- tius. They may be debited for ( 1) payments f rom resi- dents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) t rans fe rs to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) trans- fers to External Accounts in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area coun try has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Maur i t ius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with ( 1) authorized pay- ments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appro- priate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers f rom other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non- Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized f rom investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required, regard- less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling Area, as defined before June 23, 1972, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non- Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries with it exchange control authority to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance is the equivalent of <£ stg. 400 a person a year for travel to any country except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 35 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area coun- tries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscrip- tions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be sub- mitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially MAURITIUS of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and ( 3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax ranging f rom 6 per cent to 13.5 per cent is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies-to retain export pro- ceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permis- sion, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country except Rhodesia on payment of a 36 per cent stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the stamp duty of 36 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Sterling Area country concerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or af ter that date. Proceeds f rom the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 f rom their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 36 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addi- tion to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are per- mitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (includ- 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 36 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1978 February 8. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling were made available to authorized dealers to cover contracts for the import and export of merchan- dise by companies in the export processing zone and bank borrowings abroad for on-lending to the sugar industry. June 6. The import deposit requirement, equivalent to 35 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports, was abolished. June 21. The Bank of Mauritius began to quote buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. July 1. The stamp duty payable on transfers of capital was increased from 35.70 per cent to 36 per cent. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. The authorities of Mexico do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are de- termined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$22.61 and Mex$22.81, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, and foreign exchange may be freely purchased or sold, there being no exchange restrictions of any kind. An exchange cover scheme is available for selected transactions; it is operated by the Bank of Mexico along the lines of a swap arrangement. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. In accordance with the payments agreement with Yugo- slavia, payments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with that country handled through the Mexican banking system may, with the prior authoriza- tion of the Bank of Mexico, be made through a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Asso- ciation (LAFTA). Similar arrangements exist for pay- ments between Mexico and the Dominican Republic, between Mexico and Cuba, and between Mexico and Iran. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in U.S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal payment agreement between the central banks of those countries. imports and Import Payments Substantial liberalization has taken place eliminating for most products the use of import licenses; these have been replaced by tariffs. For some goods, however, import licenses f rom the Ministry of Commerce are required and their issuance may be subject to quantita- tive restrictions. For specific commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted; these allow limited importation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screen- ing of the importer's performance, renewal of the licenses is possible. For a small number of luxury items, no licenses are granted. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 per cent and 6 per cent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Committee of the Public Sector (CISP); this approval is not given if a competitive domestic equivalent is available at a price differential of 15-20 per cent. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declara- tion of shipment. Virtually all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund established with the Bank of Mexico. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to export proceeds. Rebates of indirect taxes by means of a system of certificates (certificados de devolution de impuestos or CEDIS) are granted on exports of certain manufactured and semi- manufac tured products and of certain services. Proceeds from invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexican bank- ing or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, elec- 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO tricity and nuclear energy, certain m in ing activities, rail- roads, and telecommunications, are reserved to govern- ment investment. Investment in a number of activities is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or corporations (radio and television, the public transpor- tation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Governmen t), while new investments in other sectors must have a ma jor i ty par- ticipation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of Commerce. Applications by foreign natural or ju r id ical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the appropri- ate ministry, after the National Foreign Investment Commission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered within 30 days. Borrowing abroad (or w i th in Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the M in is try of Finance and Public Credit. Borrow- ing abroad by private banks is subject to certain require- ments imposed by the Bank of Mexico; these banks are permitted to accept deposits denominated in foreign currency f rom residents as well as nonresidents. The net yield on such deposits is fixed in relation to the corre- sponding Eurodollar rate in London. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manufac turers effected through authorized Mexican credit institutions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. There is a 15 per cent tax on sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold undertaking not to sell it at prices exceeding inter- national quotations plus normal marketing costs are eligible for an automatic subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mexico to private banks or to goldsmiths or manufacturers in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless effected by the Bank of Mexico. Imports of gold are subject to import license from the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1978 January 1. The import licensing requirement was e l im ina ted for 1,929 ta r i ff items out of the total customs classification of 7,740 items. In addition, it was an- nounced that th is requirement would be eliminated in e i ther 1978 or 1979 for a fu r ther 2,386 items. January 15. Customs duties on about 1,600 items were increased. May 11. Quantitative limits were specified for imports of table wines, some textile fabrics, rawhides, and a few other products. June 16. The Bank of Mexico introduced a special rediscount facility, at p re fe ren t ial rates, for export docu- ments of up to 90 days. June 30. The import licensing requirement was e l im ina ted for about 1,500 tar iff items. Customs duties were raised on most of these items. September 12. Customs duties on 417 items, mainly agr icu l tura l, fores try, and fishing products, were reduced. October 6. A reciprocal credit agreement with an open line of credit of US$100 million was established w i th Israel. November 10. The Bank of Mexico modified the deposit rates on maturities of less than six months. In the case of U.S. dollar-denominated deposits, banks were authorized to pay rates similar to those prevailing in the Eurodollar market for deposits of comparable maturities. December 26. The import licensing requirement was eliminated for a fu r ther 1,284 tariff items, mainly com- prising intermediate goods used by the chemical and agricultural sectors. December 27. The Banking Law was amended to authorize the establishment in Mexico of branches of international private banks. Such branches were re- stricted to offshore operations with nonresidents. December 28. The import licensing requirement was eliminated for 848 tariff items. (With this decision the requirement had been eliminated for about two thirds of the items in the customs classification.) 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trad- ing partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade. Buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1978 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.92839 buying, and DH 0.93117 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was fixed at DH 3.8750 buying, and DH 3.8979 selling, per US$1. A bonus of 5 per cent is paid on the dirham equivalent of foreign currencies transferred to bank or postal accounts by Moroccans working abroad. A supple- mentary premium is paid on remittances effected by Moroccans working in France. The additional premium, called the "fidelity premium," is calculated so as to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of DH 1 = F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, the "convertible currencies,"l and specified other currencies;2 the author- ized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certifi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U .A .E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2 Finnish markkaa, Iranian rials, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco. cates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt f rom taxation and f rom trade, customs, and exchange control. Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc- tion between the former French Franc Area and the area of convertibility, Morocco applies exchange control also to transactions with the former.3 Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the former French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, compris- ing countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;4 and (3) all other countries, the "area of convertibility." Settlements with the former French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settle- ments for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria, however, are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks, and all settle- ments with Tunisia are made through accounts denomi- nated in convertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made through the payments agreement ac- counts. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.5 Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Mo- roccan currency in the names of residents of countries of the former French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the 3 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. *M a li and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Mali is inoperative. 3 Special regulations apply to payments for imports of Egyptian origin; 40 per cent of such payments must be effected through the account established under the terminated bilateral payments agreement and 60 per cent in "convertible currencies." 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO former French Franc Area, except for payments for imports (and related invisibles) from those countries.6 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) effected with the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely w i th authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies," excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies." Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited w i th f u n ds that may not be transferred abroad. These inc lude the proceeds f rom the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroc- can securities and proceeds f rom the contractual or accelerated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries either in the area of convertibility or the former French Franc Area, or the same country in the payments agreement group, are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a limit of DH 5,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require ind iv idual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance w i th an annu al General Import Program, divided in to three categories 0 Imports f rom the former French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for w i th French francs purchased f rom the Bank of Morocco. 282 and applicable to all countries, except Rhodesia. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are ap- proved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB i tems ). In principle, the importa- tion of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported f rom a country other than that of origin or are pur- chased on a c.i.f. basis,7 but for goods in List B, an import cer t if ica te (autorisation d'importation or certificat a"importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the fo re ign exchange is made available. Import comm i tmen ts require this visa only when the country of origin and the coun try of shipment of the goods concerned d iffer or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. A noninterest-bearing advance import deposit equi- valent to 25 per cent of the total foreign exchange cost of the import is payable at the time the import trans- action is domiciled w i th an authorized bank. The deposit is r e fund ed to the importer af ter six months. A large number of import items is exempt from the deposit requ iremen t —no tab ly essential foodstuffs, pri- ma ry, sem i f in ished, and capital goods imported by cooperatives, and small and medium-sized enterprises w i th an annual tu rnover of less than DH 7.5 million, imports made by public offices and local communities, and imports under the customs savings procedures.8 Most imports f rom countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial trans- action covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident imports of List A goods require prior exchange control 7 C.i.f. approval. 8 Inc lud ing tempo ra ry admissions, d rawback, and warehousing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav- ing their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his f am i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco,9 except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. Subject to a monthly limit of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the mining sector are authorized to transfer between 60 and 80 per cent of their monthly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign na- tionality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel by persons other than exporters a standard allowance of DH 250 a day is granted, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters may obtain up to DH 300 a day, up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, within a ceiling of 3 per cent of the foreign ex- change repatriated dur ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursuing higher studies abroad may obtain monthly allocations of foreign exchange up to DH 1,000 for students in higher education who do not hold scholarships, and of DH 1,500 for doctoral students who do not hold scholarships. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,000 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance, fixed at DH 2,000. For family mainte- nance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allocation of DH 300. The export of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. 9 For all wages and salaries of the private sector, monthly transfers from February 1, 1978 and June 1, 1978 may not exceed the amounts transferred in December 1977 and in June 1978, respectively, by more than DH 150 without prior authorization by the Exchange Office. MOROCCO Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisa- tion et d'Exportation —OCE) which is also in charge of w ine exports. All exporters must sign an unde r tak ing to repatriate and surrender fore ign exchange proceeds. The sur- render to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one mon th from the date the payment is due. The da te on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be set more than 90 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in fo re ign currency f rom abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must sur- render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies within one month of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving again, to repur- chase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the cur- rencies so purchased may include French f rancs ). Moroccan workers abroad are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the dirham equivalent of any foreign exchange repatriated in the form of transfers to a bank or a postal account. A supplementary premium is paid on such remittances by Moroccans working in France. The additional premium, called the "fidelity premium," is computed to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of F 1 = DH 1. The importation of Moroccan bank- notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; foreign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident tra- velers also may bring in any amount in foreign bank- notes, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittance of the assets 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO of emigrants and t rans fe rs in the fo rm of g i f ts are not normally approved, nor is investment by private ind i- viduals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the t ran s fer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Transfers of assets by persons returning to their own country vary with the length of their stay in Morocco, f rom DH 35,000 a fam i ly w i th fam i ly residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a fam i ly where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit f rom the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It gua ran- tees the t ran s fer of dividends distributed to nonresidents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see below) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of investments f inanced in this m a n n er become transferab le a f ter a m in imum inves tment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Inves tment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit f rom the re transfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or of participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any k ind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; l end ing to residents; payment of local ex- penses in excess of DH 5,000 dur ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to bene- ficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; any such payments f rom an account held by a fore ign jur id ical person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, within the f ramewo rk of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amoun ts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment unde r taken by the nonresident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Certain government bonds acquired with funds f rom Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between non- residents. These are 5.5 per cent, seven-year bonds on 284 which interest and redemption proceeds are transfer- able. All other transactions in securities involving non- resident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrow ing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds f rom nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these f u n ds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tur i ty period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold A commemo ra t ive gold coin w i th a face va lue of DH 250 has been issued, which is legal tender. Resi- dents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num i sma t ic or investment purposes. Ten d i f fe rent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to au tho r iza t ion by the Directorate of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes. Every year the Ministry of Finance fixes a quo ta for the importation of gold ingots, which is then a l loca ted among jewelers and indus tr ial users of precious metals. Gold jewelry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1978 January 1. Notice to Importers No. 01-78 comprised the Annual Import Program for 1978. Many commodi- ties were sh if ted f rom the unrestricted category (List A) to the category which requires an import license (List B ). The items included foods tuffs, beverages, varnish and pa in ts, photographic equipment, tractors, passenger cars, u t i l i ty vehicles imported in completely knocked- down condition, toys, and articles related to sports activi- ties. No quotas were imposed on these imports, and it was provided that they would be licensed in accordance w i th need. For certain imports, which previously were included in List B, existing quota limits were reduced. In addition, several commodities were transferred to the prohibited list (List C ). By contrast, a number of textile imports which were among those transferred f rom the unrestricted to the licensed category in August 1977 ( fo l low ing the imposition of EEC restrictions on cer ta in exports by Morocco) were re transferred to the unrestricted import list (List A). January 1. The rate of special import tax was raised f rom 8 per cent to 12 per cent ad valorem. April 5. The Ministry of Finance ordered increases in customs duties on textiles to 100-150 per cent, on shoes to 120 per cent, and on f u r n i t u re to 150 per cent, ad valorem. Import duties were lowered for medical and surgical equipment f rom 25 per cent to 10 per cent ad valorem. June 5. A supplementary prem ium, called a "fidelity premium ," was introduced for transfers to bank or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution postal accounts by Moroccans working in France. The premium was additional to the 5 per cent bonus estab- lished on July 30, 1973 for transfers by Moroccan workers abroad. The amount of the additional premium was to be calculated so as to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of DH 1 = F 1. June 9. Notice No. 04-78 issued by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, increased the number of pro- hibited commodity items (List C) by nearly threefold to 350. The items added included mainly foods tuffs and other consumer goods, including household appli- ances, clothing, and motor vehicles. The prohibition became effective on June 19, 1978. June 13. Decree No. 2.78.273 (supplemented by Exchange Office Circular No. 1327 dated June 22, 1978), introduced an advance import deposit require- ment, equivalent to 25 per cent of the total foreign exchange cost of the import and payable at the time of registration of the import transaction. The deposit, which would be noninterest-bearing, was to be refunded to the importer af ter six months. The deposit had to be transferred by the banks to the Treasury's general ac- count with the central bank. A large number of imports were exempted from the deposit requirement— notably essential foodstuffs and primary, semifinished, and capital goods imported by cooperatives and small and medium-sized enterprises with an annual turnover of less than DH 7.5 million, imports made by public MOROCCO offices and local communities, and imports under the customs savings procedures. June 17. Notice No. 05-78 issued by the Ministry of Commerce imposed a licensing requirement (List B) on about 130 commodity items which were previously free (List A), effective June 19, 1978. The items included vegetable products, certain mineral products, articles of wood and stone, glassware, specified iron and steel articles, as well as machinery and mechanical appliances. July 7. Notice No. 06-78 published by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, retransferred certain items —mainly spare parts—to the liberalized category (List A) f rom the licensed category (List B) to which they had been shifted on June 17. July 10. Exchange Office Circular No. 1329 pro- vided for a number of additional exemptions from the advance import deposit requirement introduced on June 13. October 20. The Bank of Morocco announced that it would quote daily buying and selling rates for the Kuwaiti dinar, the Saudi Arabian riyal, and the U.A.E. dirham. November 1. The cooperation agreement between Morocco and the EEC entered into force. December 11. Exchange Office Circular No. 1366 exempted imports of newsprint from the advance import deposit requirement. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of NRs 12.00 = US$1. On December 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates were NRs 11.90 and NRs 12.10, respectively, per US$1. Nepal also quotes fixed rates for the Indian rupee, at NRs 145.00 buying and .NRs 145.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for other cur- rencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Buying rates only are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and Swedish kroner, based on buying rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A second official exchange rate is applied only to merchandise transactions, with certain specified exceptions, with coun- tries other than India. This rate is fixed at NRs 15.90 buying and NRs 16.10 selling, per US$1. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all payments in convertible currency except for import payments and certain specified payments. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. A supervisory committee composed of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the M in is try of Agriculture, and the National Planning Commission oversees the operation of the dual exchange rate system. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Ban i jya Bank. Within Nepal there are 105 additional authorized dealers licensed to pur- chase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. All import and export trans- actions with payments agreement countries,2 as well as all barter trade, are conducted through a state t rad ing agency, the National Trading Ltd. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries w i th which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Ras tra Bank. Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union except India (Bangladesh, Burma, 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Nepal has bilateral payments agreements w i th Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Poland, and U.S.S.R.; paymen ts between Nepal and these countries must be made th rough special accounts. An agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. 286 Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union. Payments for imports from India nor- mally are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such imports at the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Indian nationals are allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees with Nepalese banks. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from India and imports of certain commodi- ties (cement, corrugated sheeting, hardware, industrial machinery and spare parts, and fertilizer) from countries other than India do not require import licenses. All other imports of goods require import licenses. Imports of vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, woolen carpets, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters require special permission of the Government. Imports of beef are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between them- selves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may in principle be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation, and certain others are subject to export ceilings in India); reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufac turers of commodi- ties subject to excise duty in India. Imports of certain commodities from countries other than India (e.g., stainless steel, wrist watches, synthetic yarn, radios, and pocket calculators) are restricted. Foreign tourists may bring in, without permission, goods, not exceeding NRs 10,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Nepalese citizens returning af ter less than three months abroad, except to India, are allowed to import without permission goods valued up to NRs 5000. Nepalese citizens returning af ter an absence of between three months and one year may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import goods valued up to NRs 10,000 without permis- sion; the limit for citizens returning after more than one year abroad is NRs 15,000. Under the dual exchange rate system for merchandise transactions, a fixed depreciated selling rate of NRs 16.10 per US$1 is applied to all imports from countries other than India, except for exempted items (e.g., petroleum products, coal, fertilizer, raw cotton, cotton yarn, indus- trial chemicals, construction materials, and machinery). Exchange to pay for the exempted import items is pur- chased at the official selling rate of NRs 12.10 per US$1.3 Most government imports are effected through state trading agencies, mainly the National Trading Ltd. and the Agricultural Input Corporation. All imports settled through the banking system must be made on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for amounts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. All payments for freight and insurance are made at the official exchange rate. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisi- bles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India but only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these cur- rencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresi- dents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coin and jewelry made of these metals, wild buffaloes, monkeys, pandas, musk deer, and rhinoceros are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-N£palese goods is not per- mitted, and re-export to any destination of goods im- ported from India is prohibited. All other goods, except rice, may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations except handicrafts, woolen goods other than carpets, and jute bags, require export licenses. Eight regional paddy and rice export companies and the Nepal Food Corporation have a monopoly over exports of paddy and rice, and the latter has a monopoly over exports of lentil seeds. 8 Debt service payments on foreign credits associated with imports are transacted at the rate applicable to the merchandise. NEPAL The exchange proceeds from exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six months of the date when the goods crossed the customs frontier. As part of the dual exchange rate system, exports to countries other than India are transacted at the depreciated official buying rate of NRs 15.90 per US$1. An export valuation committee determines for each commodity the maximum unit value that can appear on an application for the depreciated exchange rate. Un it values are defined on an f.o.b. Nepal basis. Foreign exchange surrendered in excess of earnings calculated on this basis is not eligible for the depreciated exchange rate. Nepalese citizens going abroad may take out unre- stricted goods worth up to NRs 10,000 without authori- zation; otherwise an export license is required. Proceeds from invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in imum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insur- ance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Industrial Enterprise Act, 1974 provides certain incentives for foreign investment in Nepal. Foreign investors who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold from any country 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 per cent. Changes during 1978 February 2. Excise duties levied by India on diesel, kerosene, and other petroleum products exported to Nepal under the special petroleum products exchange arrangement were waived. The Nepalese Government imposed customs duties on petroleum products equiva- lent to those waived by India. February 28. The Nepal Food Corporation was granted a monopoly over the export of lentil seeds. March 17. Nepal and India signed separate treaties on trade and transit, and an agreement to control unauthorized trade. The trade treaty prohibited the re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re- export to any destination of goods imported from India. Tariff concessions were granted by India for manufac- tured goods. Manufactured goods containing at least 80 per cent Nepalese and Indian value-added were exempted from duty; where value-added was less than 80 per cent but more than 50 per cent, the maximum tariff rate would be 50 per cent of the most-favored- nation rate; the most-favored-nation rate would be applied to manufactured goods with a combined Nepalese and Indian value-added of less than 50 per cent. The transit treaty stipulated the points of entry and exit for goods in transit through India and the proce- dures for transshipment, storage, and inspection. The Agreement to Control Unauthorized Trade committed both Governments to prevent the infringement of the laws, rules, and regulations of the other country relating to customs, foreign exchange, and foreign trade. The trade treaty and the agreements to control unauthorized trade would be effective for five years. The transit treaty would be operative for seven years. March 22. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were adjusted from NRs 12.45 buying and NRs 12.55 selling, per US$1 to NRs 11.90 buying and NRs 12.10 selling, per US$1. Also, the official rates for the Indian rupee were adjusted from NRs 139.00 buying and NRs 139.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees to NRs 145.00 buying and NRs 145.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. March 30. With effect from March 31, both the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme and the pro- portionality requirement on imports were abolished and were replaced by a dual exchange rate system. All transactions with India and all transfers, capital trans- actions, and transactions in invisibles with countries other than India, except certain debt service payments on foreign credits associated with merchandise trade, would be transacted at the existing exchange rates. A fixed 288 depreciated second rate of NRs 15.90 buying and NRs 16.10 selling, per US$1, would be applied to all merchandise trade with countries other than India, except for exempted import items (e.g., petroleum prod- ucts, coal, fertilizer, raw cotton, cotton yarn, industrial chemicals, construction materials, and machinery); the depreciated rate would also be applied to the debt service payments mentioned above. Markups used in the assessments of sales taxes were raised and the valua- tion base was changed from c.i.f. Calcutta, to c.i.f. Nepal border, for all imports f rom countries other than India. Licensing for all permitted exports to, and im- ports from, third countries was made automatic, and un i fo rm treatment in gran t ing licenses would be accorded to the public and private sectors except that (1) export licenses for rice and pulses would be issued only to public corporations and (2) imports of specified commodi- ties (e.g., stainless steel, synthetic yarn, wrist watches, radios, and pocket calculators) would be restricted. April 6. An additional duty of 6 per cent was imposed on the export of raw ju te and ju te cuttings with effect from March 30, 1978. April 8. Customs duties and sales taxes on imports of cement were waived for the fiscal year 1978/79. April 21. Restrictions were imposed on the import of biris, cigarettes, matches, opium, morphia, and l iquor containing 60 per cent alcohol. April 29. The Government restricted the export of articles of archeological importance, unprocessed leather, raw wool, and scrap of brass, copper, and bronze, and utensils made of those materials. The export of wild buffaloes, monkeys, pandas, musk deer, rhinoceros and other wild animals was prohibited. May 24. The Export Valuation Study Committee changed the valuation base for imports from c.i.f. Calcutta to f.o.b. Nepal. The 15 per cent margin above the max imum unit price set by the Committee was abol- ished, but it was announced that maximum prices set by the Committee would be adequate to permit price varia- tion in individual contracts. August 19. Nepalese citizens traveling abroad might take out, without permission, unrestricted goods worth up to NRs 10,000. Foreign tourists might bring in, without permission, goods not otherwise restricted up to a value of NRs 10,000. Nepalese citizens returning after less than three months abroad, except to India, would be allowed to import without permission, goods valued up to NRs 5,000. Nepalese citizens returning after an absence of between three months and one year might import goods valued up to NRs 10,000 without permis- sion, and for those returning after more than one year the limit would be NRs 15,000. September 4. India provided transit facilities through Radhikapur for Nepal's trade with Bangladesh and other countries. November 21. The import without license of turmeric powder from India was restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Luxem- bourg in the European common margins arrangement (the snake), which is a multicurrency intervention sys- tem.1 In accordance with this arrangement, the Nether- lands maintains the spot exchange rates of the cur- rencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates applied in the arrangement. The arrangement implies that the Netherlands Bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the cur- rencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 these rates were: Specified Intervention 0 .* , T * .- Rates Per; Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian francs or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 7.0520 6.7420 39.270 37.5425 110.835 105.960 The participants in the snake are not maintaining exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the arrangement they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the principal intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for 13 foreign currencies.2 On December 29, 1978, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were f. 1.96775 and f. 1.97025, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including depos- its in nonresident guilder accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions with authorized banks for any period. The intermediation of authorized banks is not obligatory in those forward currency transactions in iW i th effect from March 13, 1979 the Netherlands participates in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. (With effect from March 13, 1979 rates for the Irish pound are also quoted.) which the guilder is not involved. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and are permitted to hold accounts in their own names with banks abroad; overdrafts on the latter accounts nor- mally are not allowed in excess of f. 300,000 a year. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries with which pay- ments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank; transit trade transactions in strategic goods and scrap are licensed by the CDIU.3 Commercial banks are authorized to handle exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. For all current payments to, or receipts f rom, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, and for all capital payments or receipts, nonbank residents as well as nonauthorized banks are required to indicate, on an exchange control form, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. If such payments are made from, or are received in, the Netherlands they must use the intermediation of authorized banks or of other domestic institutions or persons designated by the Nether- lands Bank. Residents are free, however, to open and maintain bank accounts abroad, to which receipts may be credited and payments debited; in that case, they must notify the Netherlands Bank, and receipts and payments are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. 3 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the EEC, of scrap. Transit trade (merchanting) involving Rhodesia is prohibited. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS There are specific regulations for payments in respect of certain direct imports from Egypt.4 All payments and credits, whether direct or indirect, f rom the Nether- lands to Rhodesia are prohibited unless a license is granted by the Netherlands Bank. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to open and ma in ta in nonresi- dent accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to e f fect pay- ments to, or collect receipts f rom, residents. All cu r rent payments or receipts are freely perm i t ted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonres ident accounts. A number of capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license f rom the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital below). Nonresident accounts held by residents of Rhodesia are of two kinds: R Accounts for payments w i th in the Netherlands, some of which are permitted under general license, and Special Accounts through which external payments must be made, subject to special licenses (which are granted only for the exceptional cases referred to in the relevant UN Resolution). Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, ma in ly in the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors, when not of EEC origin. Except for imports of textiles o r ig ina t ing in the Far East and in state trad ing countries, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most impo r ts from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previ- ous barriers to imports; common EEC regu la t ions are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative exchange control regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities, but they require prior approval f rom the Netherlands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those that are customary in the trade concerned. * Fifty per cent of these payments are used to settle Netherlands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. 290 Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appro- priate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unutilized documents of value for travel purposes as well as foreign and Nether- lands banknotes and coin which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are requ ired for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic char- acter, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amounts in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and docu- ments of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Most external capital transactions are free. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are (1) financial borrowing from nonresidents exceeding f. 300,000 a year; (2) the issue of interest-bearing domestic securities, and the sale of such unlisted securities, to nonresidents; (3) lending to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; and (4) the acquisition of unlisted foreign securities bearing interest in guilders. The inward transfer of capital originating from short- term and medium-term borrowing abroad by nonbank residents continues to be restricted for reasons of mone- tary policy. Long-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises is generally permitted upon application if the loans meet the following conditions: (1) the period between the conclusion of the contract and the maturity date of the last repayment shall be at least ten years; (2) repayment shall be effected by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution means of at least five equal annual or at least ten equal semiannual installments, whether or not preceded by a repayment-free period; (3) repayment before the dates provided for in the contract is precluded; (4) the rate of interest shall be fixed on conclusion of the contract for the full period to maturity, no periodic adjustment to prevailing market conditions being allowed; and (5) to the extent that the long-term private loan is denominated in guilders, the issue of bearer debt certi- ficates shall not be allowed. Once permission has been granted for such loans, permission to give guarantees and other security to nonresident lenders will also be granted. Apart from this, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment in listed securities or the purchase of real estate, see below) is in general permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct invest- ment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of companies, direct investment is considered to include intercompany financial loans with a fixed term of at least five years from the foreign parent company. Under certain conditions loans from other affiliated foreign companies are also being licensed. The regulations on long-term foreign financial borrowing provide that the proceeds of loans that meet certain conditions, mainly regarding maturities, may be employed in the Nether- lands as well as abroad. If employed abroad, such proceeds may be used either for investment abroad (which is considered to include purchases of ships and aircraft) or for repayment of foreign credits raised earlier under an exchange control permission. How- ever, companies working on the Netherlands sector of the continental shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are allowed to take up foreign credits (with a fixed term of at least five years) to the full extent of their financing requirements. Resident un i ts of international companies are free to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad for the purpose of intercompany settlements; changes in the accounts are to be reported to the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. Short- term foreign bank credit for the financing of imports is licensed if it is directly connected with a specific import transaction; for long-term financing, importers are referred to the domestic credit market. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Netherlands treasury paper and bank acceptances denominated in guilders are prohibited. Lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is free up to f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; larger amounts are normally permitted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market (the market for debt certificates or onderhandse NETHERLANDS leningen), institutional investors are liberally permitted to extend loans to nonresidents. The maximum size of each loan is set at f. 75 million and the minimum maturity at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal installments. The lenders are to deliver in foreign currency. A queue system with an issue calendar for nonresident borrowers is used to ensure an orderly market. Participation by residents in the capital of companies abroad is free. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds from the sale or liqui- dation of direct investments is free. Repayment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any relevant stipulations in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are free. However, residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euromarket denominated in guilders and issued by nonresidents. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad only if the proceeds are not brought into the Netherlands, unless they comply with the conditions regarding long-term foreign borrowing for domestic use by resident enterprises (see above). The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents (except Rhodesian nationals) are transferable in any cur- rency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, domes- tic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Exten- sion of payments within the framework of such trans- actions is also freely permitted. Residents, when purchasing real estate abroad, may borrow on mortgage from a nonresident an amount not exceeding the purchase amount. Previously acquired foreign real estate may be mortgaged for a loan (provided the amount of the mortgage does not exceed the value of the real estate). Subject to certain conditions, residents may also incur a debt toward a nonresident, on the security of a mortgage, for the purchase amount of real estate situated in the Netherlands. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.5 Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Non- residents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. 5 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS The curtailment of external borrowing is also applied to the authorized banks. Any net foreign indebtedness on their part is restricted by the "five million regulation," which prescribes that the total of each bank's spot fore ign liabilities (regardless of denomination or maturity) must not at any time exceed its total spot foreign assets by more than f. 5 million. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank twice a month the totals of their spot assets and liabilities, broken down into guilders and all foreign currencies combined. In addition, banks are encouraged to maintain a balanced total position (i.e., spot plus forward position) in each fore ign currency. They are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresidents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same da ta must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all fo rwa rd exchange contracts with nonresidents are fo rwa rded to the Nether- lands Bank. Banks are free to lend to fore ign banks and, for maturities up to one year, to fore ign nonbanks; longer-term lending is permitted under general license. Banks are free to pay customary rates of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, and to estab- lish guilder time or savings deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents. Thus, their freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents (including foreign cur- rency demand or time deposits) and to borrow abroad is unrestricted, provided the limit set by the "five million regulation" is observed. All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whe ther free or permitted under license, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepayments exceed- ing f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only with monetary authorities and international finan- cial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coin, if legal tender in the coun try of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value- added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 18 per cent.6 Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1978 August 1. The Netherlands Bank revalued its gold holdings f rom 4,053 guilders per kilogram to 7,500 guilders per kilogram, i.e., 70 per cent of the lowest annual average price in the preceding three years. October 16. The exchange rates at which members of the European common margins arrangement stand ready to intervene were adjusted. The rates of the Netherlands guilder were changed downward by 2 per cent in terms of the deutsche mark, and upward by 2 per cent in terms of the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone. December 5. The Netherlands agreed to the estab- lishment of the European Monetary System. December 12. Following Norway's decision to with- draw from the European common margins arrangement, effective December 12, 1978, the Netherlands withdrew its buying and selling rates for the Norwegian krone. December 28. The regulations on long-term borrow- ing abroad by domestic enterprises were relaxed so that the proceeds of loans meeting certain conditions, mainly regarding maturities, might be employed in the Nether- lands, as well as abroad. In addition, any borrowing abroad hitherto permitted on condition that the proceeds be used for direct investment abroad would now also be licensed for repayment of earlier foreign borrowing. 6 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1979 transfers of gold in bars and other elementary fo rms are taxed at 4 per cent (except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank with foreign monetary au thor i t ies); all other gold transactions are taxed at 18 per cent. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Neth- erlands Antilles Guilder which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Ant. f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were Ant. f. 1.77 per US$1 for banknotes and Ant. f. 1.79 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was Ant. f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the cen- tral bank) deals with commercial banks at interbank rates; it does not normally deal with the public. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax of 0.80 per cent on sales of foreign exchange.3 Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances,4 but authorized banks have been granted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Depart- ment of Economic Affairs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The central bank may grant exemption f rom the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents as principals; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until further notice. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange, as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including foreign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status) are per- iThe Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. 3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresi- dent status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. 4 All currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are con- sidered foreign currencies. mitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Nether- lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed Ant. f. 10,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for reasons of public policy. Imports of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic Affa irs, while commercial imports of pas- senger automobiles built prior to the production year November 1, 1975-October 31, 1976 are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with nonresident status normally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required mainly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of Ant. f. 180 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 5,000 for each transaction or in excess of Ant. f. 25,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any fore ign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which usually are granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresi- dent status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must in principle be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coin, since the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, travelers 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 200 in Nether- lands Antilles banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies pri- marily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption f rom the requirement of surrendering their foreign cur- rency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to companies concerned with investment, patent holding, shipping, and insurance. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts in foreign currency between residents and foreign insurance companies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position, but outward transfers of capital by l ife insurance companies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domestic currency are freely permitted in any amount by v ir tue of general per- missions granted to individual foreign insurers. Invest- ment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license but this is normally given freely. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is freely allowed by a general permission provided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank and provided foreign payments are channeled through authorized banks; purchases of mutual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad f rom nonresidents (including residents with non- resident s ta tus), or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons and banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Local borrowing in domestic currency by non- residents ( inc lud ing resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold There are three commemorative gold coins each o f, which is legal tender, the Ant. f. 200 (1976) Bicenten- n ia l, the Ant. f. 200 (1977) Peter Stuyvesant, and the An t. f. 100 ( 1 9 7 9 ), commemorating the 150th anniver- sary of the central bank. Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for num isma t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may free ly negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the New Zealand dollar, which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand dollar and a basket of currencies representing New Zealand's main trading partners. The currencies included in the basket and their weights are established in accord- ance with their proportionate share of New Zealand's total current overseas receipts and payments; the weights are adjusted quarterly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. The outer limits for the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were $NZ 0.9332 and $NZ 0.9420, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts for up to 12 months to cover both import and export transactions but can do so only within ten bank ing days of the exchange risk arising. Cover is not available for goods imported on consignment and nonresidents are not per- mitted to obtain forward exchange cover. Forward transactions in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling take place at rates of exchange determined daily by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand and are based on the closing forward quotations in overseas markets on the previous day. Forward exchange contracts in U.S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates adjusted by US$0.0050 a month on the selling side but unadjusted on the buying side. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New York foreign exchange markets, against sterling or U.S. dollars.1 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank has given discretionary author- ity to the trading banks to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations gov- 1 On February 1, 1979 the Reserve Bank facility under which trading banks might settle their net positions in spot and fo rwa rd sterling and Canadian dollars was w i thdrawn. Settlement between the t rad ing banks and the Reserve Bank henceforth took place in U.S. dollars only. At the same time the Reserve Bank ceased to determine the outer limit spot and fo rwa rd rates for all currencies except the U.S. dollar. erning foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.2 Payment to and from accounts denominated in New Zealand currency held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia, also is an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("con- trolled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded f rom overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable f rom New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers virtually all primary products (other than whea t), most raw materials and components of a type not pro- duced in New Zealand (e.g., base chemicals and fertil- izers), and a range of consumer goods and machinery. Goods in this category are exempt from licensing, as are, in addition, certain imports of Australian origin, irre- spective of the licensing category to which they belong.3 On a value basis, more than 70 per cent of all private imports are exempt f rom licensing. The "Basic" cate- gory comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual value of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this category include tires, paper products, and a range of materials for use in manufac- ture. The "C" category covers a wide range of com- modities, including most manufac tures, e.g., machinery and appliances, aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alterna- tives, and price; for some "C" items, however, there is an initial allocation until July of each year, based on a previous period, while applications for further licenses 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand cu r rency. 3 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on Janua ry 1, 1966. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND are considered ind iv idua l ly. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to special arrange- ments. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued auto- matically to ensure con t inu i ty of importation for certain regularly required goods in the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source except Rhodesia. Imports f rom Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affa irs. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer ind iv idual entitlements to a com- posite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; t rade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not requ ire a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a max imum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amoun ts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above alloca- tions, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign curren- cies, without limit as to amoun t, to New Zealand trav- elers against privately held foreign funds. A 10 per cent travel tax is payable on all tickets supplied in New Zealand for overseas travel, except for travel to certain Pacific islands. This tax is administered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal 296 au then t ica t ion; for d iv idends and interest, the approval au tho r i ty up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one recipient has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most con trac tual obligations also are normally approved, but each rem i t tance requires approval, and new commitments, such as royalty agreements with over- seas licensors or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank, and, for companies, of the Overseas Inves tment Commission. Remittances abroad on account of maintenance a n d / or g i f ts by recognized New Zea land religious and charitable organizations or ind iv idua ls operating as members of such an organization are not subject to l im i ta t ion. Rem i t tances for religious and charitable purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 5,000 in any one year for each remitter, and applications for larger amoun ts are considered on the ir merits. Any resident may f ree ly make personal rem i t tances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any des t ina t ion overseas except Rhodesia, for any purpose except gamb l ing or bu i ld ing up assets in the rem i t ter's name, provided that no indi- v idual rem i t tance exceeds $NZ 50. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 50 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denom ina t ions larger than $NZ 5. Up to $NZ 4 of the perm i t ted total may be in coin. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a t rad ing bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid un t il 1982 are issued to regular exporters. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received w i th in six months f rom the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia require the con- sent of the Minister of Foreign A f fa i rs. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when particular requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Temporary restrictions have been imposed on exports of tallow and specified types of mutton. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to annual quantitative restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub- mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain conditions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manu- facture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of imported materials and /or components used manufac ture by the exporter. in Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 the foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency pro- ceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coin, provided that any NQW Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zealand and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. While overseas borrowing by financial institutions is controlled, consents are usually granted where the funds are required for industrial development purposes. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not normally permitted until the expiry of the term for which the funds were borrowed. Overseas companies seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. Forward exchange facilities are available to cover borrowings abroad by New Zealand companies in cases where the borrowings relate to specific approved projects to develop industries based on the extraction or processing 4 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or con t ingen t); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). NEW ZEALAND of indigenous raw materials. Any such forward exchange cover would be for the amount of the capital sum only and is normally limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 million for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies which are 50 per cent or more overseas owned is normally restricted to 10 per cent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings f rom overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or com- panies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed o f fer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 per cent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 per cent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer their entire assets to their new country of residence. Applications for the rem i t tance abroad of legacies f rom the estate of a New Zealand resident are norma l ly approved in full. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Government stock on the London register pur- chased overseas by New Zealand residents after Septem- ber 5, 1969 may not be transferred f rom the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning free ly held overseas securities may re ta in them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zealand through the bank ing system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With lim- ited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any over- seas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or be reinvested in other overseas securities within three months. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restric- tively, but the importation of gold coin is exempt from license. Changes during 1978 February 3. The import deposit scheme applied since February 2, 1976 was terminated. April 1. The Exchange Control Regulations, 1978 and the Exchange Control Exemption Notice, 1978 came into force. The major amendments were as follows: ( 1) the Minister of Finance may determine, in doubtful cases, whether a person is deemed to be resident in New Zealand for the purposes of the regulations; (2) sterling area countries would henceforth be referred to as "for- eign countries"; (3) New Zealand residents were no longer required to obtain the prior approval of the Reserve Bank in order to borrow abroad for periods of less than one year for financing imports or exports; and (4) general exemptions relating to sterling area assets were continued and expanded to inc lude foreign assets wherever situated. April 6. The Import Licensing Schedule for 1978/79, to come into effect on July 1, provided for a basic alloca- tion in value terms of 107.5 per cent of 1977/78 qua l ify ing licenses for consumer goods, thus allowing the volume of such imports to remain unchanged. The allocation for other goods with a basic entitlement was 112.5 per cent of 1977/78 qua l i fy ing licenses. Other main features were ( 1) the m in imum value of "Basic" category license entitlements under an item code was raised to $NZ 500; (2) the major machinery item code was divided into 17 separate item codes for ease of identification; ( 3) in view of new or increased domestic production, certain items became entitled to a "C + 50 per cent" or "C + 75 per cent" allocation; these included tools for hand or machine use, screwdrivers, wood veneers, and grinding wheels; (4) nine product categories, including hearing aids, certain mineral fuels and oils, and tea in packages weighing 2 kilograms or more, were exempted from import licensing; (5) leather used in the manu fac tu re of footwear was shifted from the "Basic" category to category "C," and the allocation for made-up footwear was reduced to 90 per cent of the 1977/78 level; (6) to enable domestic producers to supply 70 per cent of the market for ceramic tableware, the 1978/79 allocation was set at the previous year's level; and (7) the exemption on private imports was raised to $NZ 50. The Government also announced that a new scheme would be introduced to correct anomalies arising in cases where the licensing criterion used in the past had been a major obstacle to the issue of a license to established firms, and that an in-depth review would be carried out for ten selected items to ensure that license holders were genuinely engaged in manu fac tu r ing or importing, that proper use was being made of licens- ing, and that there was an equitable spread of import licenses among firms. June 1. As part of the new budget, it was announced that ( 1) the scheme of tax incentives for exports to new markets was extended by one year un t il March 31, 1980; (2) the period for importing fishing vessels free of duty was extended to March 31, 1980; and (3) tariff policy would be reviewed to ensure it would not encourage the manu fac tu re of equipment that was less energy efficient than equipment available f rom overseas. July 1. Following a two-year review, a new customs tariff came into effect. Numerous adjustments were made to duty rates, but the overall level of tar iff protec- tion was reduced. July L Imports of sugar were prohibited except where imported with the express consent of the Minister of Customs. August 18. The Reserve Bank announced the suspen- sion of public dealings in all currencies except the U.S. dollar. The suspension was l if ted on August 21. October 13. The People's Republic of China was added to the list of countries benef i t ing from New Zealand's Generalized System of Preferences. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan Cordoba. Nicaragua maintains a dual exchange market system. Certain current and capital receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its authorized agents at the official exchange rate, and the Central Bank or its authorized agents will sell foreign exchange at the official rate for specified current and capital pay- ments and transfers. All other permitted foreign exchange transactions take place at freely determined market rates. On December 29, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C$7.00 and C$7.0525, respectively, per US$1, and the average free market buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C$7.80 and C$8.20, respectively, per US$1. The intervention currency in the official market is the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports, for issuing export authorizations, and for authorizing sales of exchange at the official rate for capital transactions and for payments for invisibles. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compensation through the Clearing House in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month. Imports and Import Payments All commercial and industrial importers are required to be registered. There are two broad categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Unregistered indi- viduals may not import for their own personal con- sumption except for the unaccompanied baggage of those persons who have resided outside Nicaragua for more than one year. Commercial and industrial imports f rom all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding an importer's license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with and authorized by the Central Bank by means of import declarations. In view of the current shortage of foreign exchange, authorization is being given according to a priority list for purchases of foreign exchange only for the import of essentials, including medicines, foods tuffs, and industrial raw mate- rials. Other imports may be settled through the parallel market. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased from the banking system, such payments being eligible for purchases at the official exchange rate.1 Letters of credit are used for imports f rom the rest of the world. Central Bank approval is not required to open a sight letter of credit but is required for a term letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permis- sion is at present limited mainly to industrial and agri- cultural machinery and certain raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this require- ment does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Nicaragua grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds f rom bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by- products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for com- modities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to an 8 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domesti- cally produced, and there is an add i t ional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the Mun ic ipal Welfare Board when the import takes place through Managua, and 1.5 per cent for other cities. Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange at the official rate for paymen ts related to invisibles must be authorized by the Central Bank. Amoun ts above those authorized by the Central Bank may be purchased in the free marke t. Domestic and fore ign currency notes may be exported freely. Under the existing regulations, authorization is auto- matically granted for tourist travel up to specified limits. For travel to Central America and Panama, the limits are US$100 a day for an adu lt or an unaccompanied minor and US$20 a day for a minor accompanied by an adult. For travel to the rest of the world, the limits are US$200 a day for an adult or an unaccompan ied minor, and US$50 a day for a minor accompanied by an adult. These limits are subject to a max imum dur ing any 360-day period of US$5,000 an adult and US$1,250 a minor. The limits for business travel are based on historic experience of expenses incurred by particular firms. Thus, upon request and after presentation of supporting documents, the Central Bank will assign an annual quota to a company or institution which may exceed the amounts allowed under the tourist travel provisions. For travel related to medical treatment, personal expenses are treated as tourist expenses but an additional allowance of up to US$10,000, or more upon verification, may be purchased at the official rate for hospital bills and medical expenses. The automatic allowance for secondary, university, and postgraduate educational expenses is tuition plus US$400 a month in Latin America and Spain, or tuition plus US$600 a month in the rest of the world. For married post- graduate students, additional monthly amounts of US$100 for a spouse and US$50 for each child, up to a maximum of US$200 for each family, are allowed. The Central Bank authorizes direct fam i ly remittances to persons residing abroad of up to US$500 a person a month when a legal obligation exists. The Central Bank's authorization is at present limited to certain essential payments, such as interest payments on the financial sector's short-term debt, education allowances, insurance, and fam i ly remittances, according to a prior- ity list for purchases of foreign exchange. Other pay- ments for invisibles may be effected through the parallel market. There is a deposit requirement of C$1 per US$1 on the sale of exchange at the official rate for business and tourist travel and for medical expenses abroad. The deposit is refunded upon return, after authorization by the Central Bank. The re fund must be requested within 90 days of the sale of the foreign exchange, but for 300 persons rema in ing abroad beyond this period the re fund may be processed th rough N ica raguan consular offices. A i r l ines opera t ing or represented in N ica ragua must accept payment for their services in cordobas at the off ic ial exchange ra te plus a commission of 0.75 per cent. The Central Bank will authorize the sale of fore ign exchange at the off ic ial ra te to these companies equiva- lent to the U.S. dollar amount of invoicing for services. Sales of exchange for transport other than by air will also be au thor ized at the official exchange rate. Exchange for the payment of l i fe insu rance p rem iums may also be purchased at the official exchange rate. Payments at the official exchange rate for invisibles other than those specified above may be au thor ized by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are divided into three categories: Those in Category A requ ire specific au thor iza t ion, those in Category B requ ire general au thor iza t ion, and no author- iza t ion is requ i red for exports in Category C. Export au tho r iza t ions are gran ted by the Central Bank. When the fore ign exchange is received prior to shipment or when a le t ter of credit has been opened, the Central Bank issues the au thor iza t ion a f ter ver ify ing that the export prices are consistent w i th those prevailing in in terna t ional marke ts. In all other cases, the exporter must prov ide a guaran tee, by either a bank guaran tee or the endorsement of fixed-term financial securities, that the fo re ign exchange proceeds will be surrendered w i th in 30 days of shipment. Exchange proceeds f rom most exports must be sur- rendered to the bank ing system at the official exchange rate. However, proceeds f rom exports in Category C ( inc lud ing border t rade) may be converted in the free marke t. For cer ta in agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and co t tonseed), the Ministry of Economy may fix m in imum export prices or tempo- rarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. A system of withholding of income tax is enforced on exports of coffee (US$10 a qu in ta l ), cotton (US$4 a qu in ta l ), and beef cattle (C$60-80 a head ). In addition there is a coffee rust tax of US$5 a quintal. There is also a 5 per cent withholding of income tax on certain exporters when the Internal Revenue Service has not received their income tax statements. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange proceeds deriving f rom insurance indemni- ties, with the exception of l ife insurance, must be sur- rendered at the official exchange rate. All other receipts f rom invisibles, including receipts f rom tourism, are not subject to a surrender requirement, and may be con- verted in the free market. Domestic and foreign cur- rency notes may be imported freely. Capital Foreign exchange proceeds f rom loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the banking system or other authorized agents at the official exchange rate. The Central Bank will authorize the sale of exchange at the official rate for the payment of principal and interest upon verification that the loan was converted through the banking system at the proper time. Foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privi- leges at the official rate, provided that the foreign currency is converted in the banking system: repatria- tion of the registered capital; transfer of profits or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and private investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Nonresidents may convert local currency deposits into foreign exchange at the official rate upon prior authorization of the Central Bank, provided that the deposit was initially made by remitting foreign currency or provided that it is verified that the corresponding amount of funds entered the country and was used for stipulated purposes. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967 and commemorative gold and silver coins were issued in 1975. Changes during 1978 August 16. The rate of general sales tax was raised from 6 per cent to 8 per cent. September 9. Decree No. 332 (MEIC) and its imple- menting regulations introduced extensive changes in the Nicaraguan exchange system. This law established cer- tain categories of exchange proceeds which must be surrendered at the official exchange rate and certain categories of payments and transfers for which exchange would be sold at the official exchange rate. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange outside these stipulated categories were to be made at a freely determined market rate. Previously, all transactions were effected at one official exchange rate. Under the new law most exports required the prior authorization of the Central Bank, and the exchange proceeds from such exports must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its agents at the official exchange rate. Previously, there was neither an export licensing system nor a surrender requirement for export proceeds. Pro- ceeds from loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law must also be surrendered at the official rate. NICARAGUA Payments for imports continued to be eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate, as did payments for invisibles when such payments were authorized by the Central Bank. The Central Bank would automati- cally authorize sales of exchange up to specified limits for business and tourist travel, medical and educational expenses abroad, and family remittances. (The prior foreign exchange deposit of C$2 per US$1 applied only to tourist travel and medical expenses abroad.) Amounts above these limits would be authorized, provided they were satisfactorily documented and that no unauthorized outward transfer of capital was involved. Payments for transportation services and for life insurance premiums would also be eligible for the official exchange rate. The Central Bank would authorize sales of exchange at the official rate for interest and amortization on all loans, and for payments and transfers related to investments covered by the Foreign Investment Law, provided it could be documented that the original exchange pro- ceeds f rom such loans or investments were converted through the banking system at the official rate. Sales of exchange for payments and transfers other than those stipulated in Decree No. 332 (MEIC) and its implementing regulations might be authorized by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank. November 1. The surrender period for export pro- ceeds was reduced from 120 days to 30 days from the date of shipment. The prior foreign exchange deposit of C$2 per US$1 was lowered to C$1 per US$1. November 14. In view of the shortage of foreign exchange, import payments and payments for invisibles were classified in 21 categories in terms of priority. Allocations of foreign exchange would be authorized by the Central Bank on the basis of this list on a weekly basis. The list, in terms of priority, included essential imports (medicines and food s tu f f s ), interest payments on short-term lines of credit of the financial sector, allowances for students, insurance payments, family remittances, raw materials for industries, interest pay- ments on private debt, reinsurance, allowances for medical expenses, amortization payments on the financial sector's and the private sector's external debt, other pr imary inputs for the industrial sector, payments for investment income, capital goods, transfers by transport companies and airlines, certain consumer durables, travel, other durables, and other invisibles. In general, authorization would be given for only a few of the most urgently needed imports and interest payments, although the rest might be settled in the parallel market. November 27. The prior foreign exchange deposit of C$1 per US$1 was extended to cover business travel. December 15. It was announced that exporters of meat to the countries of the Central American Common Market would now qualify for a general license for a period of three months. Previously, they had required a specific license for each export. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. These rates include a banking commission, from which transactions for the account of the public Treasury and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempt. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commis- sion on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered for- eign countries. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the M in is try of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Service. xT he CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 302 Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with Nigeria are still effected through special accounts. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign cur- rencies, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed direct by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. The import f rom any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, bu tane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except f rom member coun- tries of the Common Organization of Afr ican and Mauritian States, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a member country of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports f rom other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EEC, many goods f rom other countries of the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of non- liberalized goods from non-EEC countries outside the former French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program deter- mined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corre- sponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Nigerien border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Service if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Service, which for certain transactions has delegated its power to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten ), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an author- ized bank. The transfer of their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Service and is normally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries, in addition to their travel allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, when traveling to a country of the former French Franc Area outside the West African Monetary Union, must declare these if they NIGER exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,3 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days af ter arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and currencies other than those of the former French Franc Area must be sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. All export transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in ). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers 3 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f f e r i ng for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a gu a r an t ee f rom the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are iden- tical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been au thor ized. With the exception of controls over fore ign securities, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Opera t ions Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with fo r e ign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over publicity aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies. All the special provisions described in this pa rag raph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger requ ire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.4 Foreign direct investments in N ige r5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. 4 Including those made th rough foreign companies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 5 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by b ranches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 304 Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the no rmal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct investment is subject to the same forma l i t ies as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requ ires authorization only to the extent that the borrow- ing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain gua ran tees and facilities under the Investment Code of Ju ly 31, 1968, and its amend ing texts. Existing benefits accorded und er the previous Investment Code have been ma in ta ined. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular trea tmen t. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemn i t ies in the event of expropriation and concerning nond iscr im ina t ion between Nigerien nationals and fore ign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to na t ional economic development and fa l l ing within speci- fied categories of indus tr ial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two d ifferent regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Niger. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. Nigeria does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and pursues an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buying and selling rates are set at 0.25 per cent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank of Nigeria also quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling based on the exchange rates for the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 All exchange dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. However, nongovernmental transactions are subject to a commis- sion of 0.25 per cent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency, except Rhodesian currency, for deliv- ery at a fu ture date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or w i th in such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for impor ts); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and insur- ance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 While the Central Bank both buys and sells U.S. dollars and sterling, it is prepared only to buy those other currencies for which it quotes daily rates. Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Minis- try of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fa ll within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank. The Central Bank supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Minis- tries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Devel- opment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria National Oil Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to countries other than Rhodesia may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in naira f rom an External Account, in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any speci- fied currency. Current payments to and f rom the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts are in three categories, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for residents of all countries other than Rhodesia. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with payments f rom other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are fed with funds derived from local sources. They may be credited with proceeds f rom services rendered locally provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West A f r ica ), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the import from any country of certain specified commodities is banned to protect local indus- tries, reduce importation of luxury goods, or for health, safety, and religious reasons. The import of a few other commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions set out in the license authorizing such imports have been complied with. Individual import licenses are required for a number of items from all sources, including raw or manufactured tobacco, certain types of paper, pas- senger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters, certain processed food products, musical instruments and equipment, photographic optical equipment, and various alcoholic beverages. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Namibia, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Some imports are effected exclusively by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company, Ltd. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Ministry of Finance fof the public sector). Import payments exceeding N 100,000 or import contracts exceeding N 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit must be registered with the Central Bank and the Ministry of Trade, respectively. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. Letters of credit opened in respect of imports of nonessential goods by the private sector are subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement. Exempted from the requirement are capital goods, raw materials, foods tuffs, and medicines. For sight trans- actions, the importer must present the customs bill of entry within 90 days after the allocation of foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject 306 to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to speci- fied limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and dividends)3 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of N 500 a person a year (N 250 a year for children under 16). There is also an allowance for pilgrimages. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destina- tion, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian cur- rency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Business travel allowances are limited to N 80 a day, up to 14 days a trip, for a max imum of 56 days in a fiscal year. Exchange allocations are available for medi- cal care up to N 500 for a consultation and up to N 2,000 for surgery, but additional amounts are pro- vided when supporting evidence is submitted. Foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide educational expenses. Exchange applications for most nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Remit- tances residents may make for gift purposes are limited to N 150 a year for individuals and N 500 for charitable organizations. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remittances (including insurance, education, medical expenses, provident fund contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel allowance); applications in excess of this l im it are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When taking overseas leave, foreign nationals may also convert up to three months' pay into foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes 3 Prof i ts and d iv idend paymen ts remitted abroad and disbursed locally may not exceed 30 per cent of a company's capital stock. New prof i ts and d iv idends may be remitted as soon as they are declared, prov ided tha t, in the case of airline and shipping com- panies, a tax at the rate of 10 per cent is paid. The tax is held on account u n t il corporate tax re tu rns are assessed and filed. Remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern tech- nology. Payments for technical and management fees require approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is normally permitted for the first five years a f ter the establishment of a new company, and there- a f t er a percentage of gross prof it not exceeding 5 per cent. Each app l ica t ion is treated on its merits within these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other payments for services, such as those re la t ing to copyrights and trademarks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coin; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of beans, cassava, flour, groundnut oil, maize, milk, palm oil, rice, sugar, hides and skins, timber, and previously imported food items are pro- hibited, as are exports of explosives, other than indus- trial explosives. Exports of cattle and groundnuts have been suspended. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tantalite, unre- fined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marketing Boards (cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm kernel oil, and palm kernels). The selling abroad of all export crops purchased by the Marketing Boards is the respon- sibility of each Marketing Board under the general guid- ance of the Export Commodity Coordinating Council. The export of certain goods (Afr ican antiques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum products are subject to special arrangements. All other goods may be exported without a license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a com- mercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, for surrender to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The taking up of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is sub- ject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The per- mission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual NIGERIA or company and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short- ages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or ove rd ra ft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank over- d ra f t, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities or buy f rom or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securi- ties registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enter- prises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Fur- thermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Commissioner for Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of U.K. gold coin requires a license f rom the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of du ty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1978 April 1. The annual limits on remittances by residents for g i ft purposes were reduced to N 150 for individuals and N 500 for charitable organizations. Exchange allow- ances for medical treatment abroad were limited to N 500 for a consultation and to N 2,000 for surgery; additional amounts would be provided, however, when supporting evidence was submitted. April 1. The following items were added to the list of prohibited imports: flavored or colored beef, beer and stout, eggs, macaroni, malted extract drinks, fresh milk, household candles, carpets, footwear, fu rn i tu r e, ready-made garments, jewelry, and matches. The fol- lowing items were added to the list of products subject to import licensing requ iremen ts: cornflakes, cigars, built-up commercial vehicles, bare and insulated copper and a lum inum electric wires, domestic refrigerators, air conditioners, paints, structural pipes, television sets, and tape decks and stereos. April 1. Letters of credit opened in respect of imports of nonessential goods by the private sector were made subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit require- ment. Exempted f rom the requirement were capital goods, foods tu f fs, medicines, and raw materials. April 1. Flour, milk, sugar, and hides and skins, as well as all imported food items, were added to the list of prohibited exports. May 10. Orders were issued regarding the transfer of ownership of direct foreign investment under the Indigenization Decree of 1974 (as amended in 1976 and 1977): (1) firms which were required to be 100 per cent Nigerian-owned must complete the transfer of ownership through the sale of the enterprise; (2) firms requiring either 60 per cent or 40 per cent Nigerian ownership might effect the change of ownership either by increasing the ownership capital in favor of Nigerian par t ic ipa t ion or by selling the foreign-owned capital to N ige r ian nationals. The terminal date for completion of the indigenization program rema ined the end of 1978. June 5. Frozen meat was transferred f rom the pro- hibited import list to the list of licensed imports. July 1. A 10 per cent tax was imposed on remittances of profits by nonresident airline and shipping companies. Proceeds from the tax would be held on account until corporate tax returns were assessed and filed. August 13. A decree came into effect which pro- hibited me rchant ships not registered in Nigeria and older than 15 years f rom entering Nigerian ports. September 1. An adm in is tra t ive order was issued by the N iger ian Port Authorities that ships would not be allowed to berth in Nigerian ports until 50 per cent of the customs du t ies payable on the cargo to be unloaded in N iger ia had been paid. October 1. The import du ty on built-up trucks and pick-up and delivery vans was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 20 per cent, while the duty on refrigerators was raised f rom 40 per cent to 50 per cent. October 2. The fo l low ing items were added to the list of prohibited imports: almanacs and diaries; calendars; Chr is tmas ca rds and other greeting cards; pearls, pre- cious, and semiprecious stones; rice in packets or in con ta ine rs weighing less than 50 kilograms; and tooth- picks. Some 26 i tems were added to the list of products subject to impo rt licensing requirements, including clocks and watches, alcoholic beverages, mats and mattresses, musical ins trumen ts and equipment, photo- graphic and optical equipment, certain processed food products, soap, socks and stockings, and ties. October 2. Import payments exceeding N 100,000 were required to be registered. December 13. Import contracts exceeding N 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit were required to be registered with the Ministry of Trade. December 15. It was announced that a system of preshipment inspection of imports into Nigeria exceeding US$25,000 in value would be introduced f rom Janu- ary 1, 1979. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on January 1, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 12 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around the benchmark for the effective value. The weights of the index are proportional to Norway's imports f rom and exports to each of the countries whose currencies are included. However, the weight of the U.S. dollar is adjusted to take account of the fact that a great part of the exports and imports of shipping services and petro- leum products are dollar based. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies in the basket. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were NKr 5.0115 and NKr 5.0335, respectively, per US$ 1. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' for- ward transactions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agr icu l ture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of sem imanufac tured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro- hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Converti- ble Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries, subject to the proviso that without special permission from the Bank of Norway the total balance held by a nonbank nonresident must not exceed NKr 100,000. They may be credited with author- ized payments from any country, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Nor- way of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents within the frame- work of the arrangements for banks' borrowing abroad (see section on Capital, below).1 Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Global quotas were introduced on Janua ry 1, 1979 for certain textiles and garments originating in countries outside the EEC and the EFTA. Certain other textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveil- lance purposes. There is a restricted list of imports of a l im i ted number of industrial goods, mainly applicable to Eastern European countries and some countries in the Far East; however, m a ny of the goods on this list are licensed automatically. All goods originating in the Republic of China are subject to import licensing. Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agr icu l tural products for which imports are perm i t ted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships th at are 20 years old, or older, and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance w i th the regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equ ipment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and s im i lar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are impor ted by government monopolies. 1 Residents also may open fore ign exchange accounts. The customer must have both income and expend i ture in fore ign currencies. Holdings on these accounts must not exceed the amount requ i red to cover obliga- t ions due in the imm e d i a te f u t u r e. 2 Au toma t ic au tho r iza t ion is not gran ted for imports f rom Albania, People's Republic of Ch ina, Repub l ic of Ch ina, Nor th Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY If no license is required or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country except Rhodesia for all current invisibles, including income f rom capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 2,000. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a tr ip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country except Rhodesia, against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt f rom declaration or export license; for fish and fish products this limit is NKr 500. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, human i ta r ian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship- ment and in conform i ty with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Nor- way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Ou tward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the g ran t ing of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving non- resident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and pur- 310 chased by nonresidents f rom residents by special permis- sion may be resold to residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds f rom the sale. The purchase of shares of Norwegian banking and indus- trial firms by nonresidents is licensed restrictively on a case-by-case basis. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the excep- tion of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mu tu al fund s, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license f rom the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon appli- cation t rans fer capital abroad to purchase, for recrea- t ional purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 150,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business firms, staff associa- t ions, etc., are approved for higher amounts. There are limits on commercial banks' borrowing abroad. Un t il November 1, 1978 the general rules stipulated that each ind iv idual bank might borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency f rom foreign banks w i th in a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above the average of its total foreign borrowing at the end of each mon th in 1975. These rules are still valid for the smaller banks. For the 11 largest commercial banks, accounting for about 90 per cent of the foreign exchange transac- tions in Norway, a new arrangement was introduced on November 1, 1978 for a trial period un t il the end of 1979. Banks now have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency within narrow marg ins v a ry ing between banks according to the size of the ir total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any Currency that is covered in other currencies. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before ra is ing loans, accepting other fo rms of capital, or incu r r ing or providing guar- antee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Norway. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coin are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1978 January 1. Under the terms of the Norway-EEC agreement, fur ther reductions in import duty were made on certain agricultural goods from the enlarged EEC and in some cases from other EFTA countries. January 1. Bulgaria was included as a beneficiary under Norway's Generalized System of Preferences. February 13. The intervention rates in Norwegian kroner for currencies participating in the European com- mon margins arrangement were changed. The new rates corresponded to a central rate of NKr 8.18709 = SDR 1, representing a depreciation of 8 per cent. September 1. Authorized banks were permitted to open foreign exchange accounts with customers having both income and expenditure in foreign currencies. Previously, this concession had been available only for NORWAY insurance companies' brokers and shipping companies. Holdings in these accounts must not exceed amounts necessary for covering obligations due in the immediate fu tu re. November 1. New arrangements were introduced for foreign transactions of banks for a trial period until the end of 1979. Banks would have to balance daily their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency w i th in narrow margins of plus or minus NKr 75 million for the larger banks. Banks were permitted to hold open positions in any currency that was covered in other currencies. Certain banks that had accumulated large net foreign positions would be allowed to reduce these gradually. November 24. It was announced that global quotas would be introduced with effect from January 1, 1979 for certain textiles and garments f rom countries outside the EEC and the EFTA. December 1. The import regulations were revised and brought up to date. December 12. Norway discontinued participation in the European common margins arrangement and pegged the krone to a basket of currencies of Norway's 12 major trad ing partners. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Oman is the R ial Oman i, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman ava i ls itself of w ider margins. The Central* Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar; on Decem- ber 29, 1978 these rates were RO 1 = US$2.89814 and RO 1 = US$2.89234, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' rates for o ther currenc ies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Oman in fo rmed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel, Rhodes ia, and South Afr ica are prohibited and the use of the ir currenc ies also is prohibited. No other prescription of cu r rency requ ire- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accoun ts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited f rom all sources for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Imports of Mar ia Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live an ima ls and foods tuffs may be prohibited in t imes of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requ iremen ts attached to receipts from expor ts or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or su r rende red, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted. Paymen ts must not, however, be made to or received f rom Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Trav- elers may b r ing in or take out any amount in domestic or fore ign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, except that no paymen ts may be made to or received f rom Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Invest- ment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or j u r i d i c al persons requires prior approval. Such invest- ment is regulated by a fore ign investment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janua ry 1977 and August 1978. Gold The mone tary authorities and all other residents and nonres iden ts, inc lud ing private persons, may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any fo rm w i thout a license and w i thout payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1978 March 12. Corn and barley were exempted from cus- toms duties. May 1. To protect local producers, import duties of 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value were levied on bananas and potatoes. August 15. The Investment Law was amended to allow for a reduction f rom US$435,000 to US$187,000 in the m in imum paid-up capital of local companies with foreign participation. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at PRs 9.90 = US$1. The State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) confines its buying and selling rates within 2.25 per cent of this rate. On December 29, 1978 the State Bank's buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 9.90 and PRs 9.9156, respectively, per US$1. All transactions with the public in foreign exchange must be conducted through author- ized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. On December 29, 1978 authorized dealers' buying and sell- ing rates for spot transactions were fixed at PRs 9.8844 and PRs 9.9312, respectively, per US$1, and for forward transactions at PRs 9.8688 and PRs 9.9468, respectively, per US$1. In calculating spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.0625 per cent is provided on either side of the mean rate based on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency con- cerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover the ir requirements of specified currencies in fore ign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in Asian monetary units for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits as well as the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade trans- actions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP ), and the Edible Oil Corporation, Ltd. (EOCP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports f rom all other countries must be established in U.S. dol- lars, pounds sterling, the domestic currency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodi- ties with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconverti- ble accounts. The special accounts with the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are maintained in noncon- vertible U.S. dollars, and the special account with North Korea is denominated in deutsche mark. A special trade and payments arrangement with the German Democratic Republic, with an indicative commodity list only, provides for payments to be effected through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Payments to and f rom Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dol- lars. Under a credit arrangement (valid until Decem- ber 31, 1978) with the Central Bank of Ceylon, all trade with Sri Lanka is settled through a clearing U.S. dollar account. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Iran (i.e., Bangla- desh, Burma, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and their produc ts) may be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union; for settlements with Sri Lanka, this arrangement is applicable to invisibles only. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds 1 D i f fe rent rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN which have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt f rom income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in prin- ciple, be procured without restriction, while items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program. Items not on either list are effectively prohib- ited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Govern- ment for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, per- sonal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months. In cases where machinery is specifically manufac tured, the validity period can be up to 24 months. Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the license, and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent of the value of the license exceeding PRs 100,000, payable at the time of issue. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are pro- hibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. (2) In order to facilitate barter trading and utilization of aid and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP and the EOCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The 314 import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to industrial consumers. (4) In conformity with Regional Cooperation for Development arrange- ments between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey governing procurements for joint industrial ventures, the import of nine items, including six chemical items, is restricted to procurement from Turkey. Also, dates may be imported only from Iraq. (5) Special provisions exist for the import by export industries of items on the tied list from nontied sources and items not on either import list. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of industrial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 2.5 million; procurement of plant and equipment of a higher value is effected by the financing institutions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened within 60 days after registra- tion of the license with the State Bank for private and public sector imports. For imports under tied loans or credits which require the contract to be approved by the Economic Affairs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports remain valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days after final approval of the contract. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum prod- ucts within the validity period of the underlying license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The State Bank requires banks to take minimum margins against import letters of credit (except for imports of industrial or agricultural machinery as well as their components and spare parts, edible oils, tea, raw materials licensed under the Export Performance Scheme, newsprint for the newspaper industry, crude oil and petroleum prod- ucts, synthetic fibers and yarns, books, magazines, and journals, truck and bus chassis, and items under the tied list) at the following rates: 10 per cent for raw rubber, raw jute, medicinal herbs, crude drugs, pharmaceutical raw materials, and cement; 25 per cent for milk, cream, butter, medicines, spices, jute bags, secondhand clothing, electric bulbs, industrial raw materials, unexposed films, and construction and engineering equipment; and 40 per cent for all other items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Irrespective of origin, certain goods are subject to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem. These include cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, and passenger automobiles. A 10 per cent surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports except petroleum products, tea, tractors, certain specified machinery, and items exempt from import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to the Republic of China, Israel, South Africa, or Rhodesia. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the unde r ly ing trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out w i th insurance companies in Pak is tan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 per cent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regulations apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's prof it and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. On an adminis- trative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel; this allocation can be taken up once every two years. Add i t ional exchange for business travel, medical treat- men t, educa t ion, and sponsored cultural tr ips may be granted on an ind iv idual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrim's travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Exporters of goods or services with annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 m i l l ion are entitled to a renewable six-month b lanket permis- sion for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$80 a day up to US$2,400 for each business trip. Foreigners leaving Pak is tan w i th in six months f rom the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out fore ign currency not exceeding the amoun ts they brought in and PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leav ing for A fghan is tan may take out PRs 50 in Pak is tan currency notes and coin and any amount of A fghan currency. Nationals work ing abroad who visit Pakistan PAKISTAN may retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three months f rom the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$50 a person and larger amounts if the currency notes were declared on entry. Nationals whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, including foreign currency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a family, provided these amounts were deposited by them with an authorized dealer immediately on arrival in Pakistan. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks sold by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denomina- tions of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to US$500 a month from their net income in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to the Republic of China, Israel, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited.2 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for specified items which are sub- ject to m in imum export prices (such as sports goods, surgical equipment, and bunker o i l ), export quotas (maize, onions, gram, and split g r am ), or quality con- trols (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton;3 rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corporation. Some chemicals may be exported only by the TCP. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method, and within the prescribed period of time. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of ship- ment; the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of A fghan currency accruing f rom exports to A fghan is tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except raw cotton, wool, rice, hides and skins, and leather wet b lue) on the basis of confirmed irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders or on the basis of the previous year's export performance. Export rebates are paid on the f.o.b. value of cotton exports, as follows: yarn (7.5 per cen t ), grey cloth (10 per c e n t ), finished cloth and made-up textiles (12.5 p e r c e n t ). 2 Proh ib i ted expor ts in c lude bee f, m u t t o n, g ra ins, f lou r, da i ry products, ed ib le oils, blood mea l, meat meal, corn g lu ten mea l, sesame oil cake, c e r t a in c i t r us f r u i ts (un less g r a d e d ), and ce r ta in h ides and skins. 3 Expor ts of staple cotton have been suspended on a temporary basis. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN The rate of income tax and corporate profit tax is reduced by 50 per cent on all income and profits derived from exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue. Industrial units established under the Pay- As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servic- ing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machin- ery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, and semitanned hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered within one month. Trav- elers may bring in PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 and above may not be imported. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation, of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of sub- sequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal and the prize winnings may then be repatriated at any time. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securi- ties by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State 316 Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresidents may be trans- ferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their nonresident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is nor- mally not granted. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes during 1978 January 7. The State Bank directed all banks incor- porated in Pakistan not to undertake purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan (BCD Circular No. 1 /78 ). January 17. In addition to the payments for invisibles to India permitted by F.E. Circular No. 35/77, pay- ments to India for the following services were hence- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution forth also permitted: royalties and technical fees; tech- nical services and consultancy agreements and engage- ment of foreign technicians; purchase of tender forms; and registrations of patents and trademarks. If admis- sible, remittances were to be made under the Asian Clearing Union arrangements (F.E. Circular No. 2 /78 ). January 25. The m in imum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of ju te bags was lowered from 40 per cent to 25 per cent (BCD Circular No. 3 /78 ). February 18. The validity period for remittances against cash import licenses was extended from 12 months to 18 months (F.E. Circular No. 4 / 7 8 ). February 28. The State Bank clarified BCD Circular No. 29 /77 to the effect that both parts of the conces- sional Export Finance Scheme were available for both preshipment and postshipment financing. For export finance against confirmed letter of credit or firm export order, the total period of finance for both preshipment and postshipment was not to exceed 180 days, unless specifically authorized by the State Bank (BCD Cir- cular No. 4 / 7 8 ). March 6. Remittances to Bangladesh were permitted for purchases of books, magazines, etc., for personal use; advertisement charges; membership fees; royalties and technical fees; and registration of patents and t radema rks (F.E. Circular No. 9 / 7 8 ). March 20. Nationals resident abroad were permitted to import standardized models of secondhand buses and trucks up to two years old under the Passenger Baggage and G ift Schemes. On March 26 it was announced that they might also import standardized models of light commercial vehicles. March 26. The m in imum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of newsprint by the newspaper indus t ry was abolished (BCD Cir- cular No. 5 /78 ). March 30. The concessional interest rate on export credits under both parts of the Export Finance Scheme was reduced from 8 per cent to 6 per cent. The re f inanc ing rate for banks was also lowered f rom 5 per cent to 3 per cent (BCD Circular No. 6 /78; see also entry for April 13, be low). At the same time, the preferential rate for the financing of exports of mach in- ery was lowered from 7 per cent to 5 per cent with refinancing provided by the State Bank at 3 per cent, instead of 5 per cent (BCD Circular No. 7 /78; see also entry for July 3, below). April 23. The minimum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of rock phosphate and kieselguhr by the fertilizer industry was abolished (BCD Circular No. 10 /78 ). April 30. It was announced that all letters of credit and payments documents under the one-year com- modity exchange agreement with the People's Republic of China of December 27, 1977 were to be expressed in U.S. dollars and that all payments under the agree- PAKISTAN ment were to be routed through a special nonconvertible U.S. dollar account (F.E. Circular No. 20 /78 ). May 17. The daily allowance for business travel abroad was raised f rom US$50 to US$80 up to a maxi- mum total of US$2,400 —from US$1,500 previously (F.E. Circular No. 21 /78 ). May 24. The m in imum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of medicinal herbs, crude drugs, and pharmaceutical raw materials was lowered f rom 25 per cent to 10 per cent (BCD Circular No. 12 /78 ). June 17. It was announced that under the one-year commodity exchange agreement with the U.S.S.R. of March 20, 1978, prices could be expressed in U.S. dollars or any other freely convertible currency (F.E. Circular No. 2 3 / 7 8 ). June 18. The monthly ceiling for fam i ly remittances by foreigners f rom their net income was raised from £150 to US$500 (F.E. Circular No. 24 /78 ). June 24. Exports of textiles to Sudan and Uganda were exempt f rom the four-month repatriation limit for export proceeds. Pakistani'exporters could henceforth g rant deferred payments terms not exceeding two years if the transaction was guaranteed by a bank of inter- na t ional reputation or by the central bank or government of the impor t ing coun try (F.E. Circular No. 25 /78 ). June 26. A special exchange allowance of US$40 a person a day up to US$1,200 was introduced for busi- ness travel to India (see also entry for May 17, above). At the same time, the exchange allowance for private tr ips to India was raised f rom US$30 to US$75 a person (F.E. Circular No. 2 6 / 7 8 ). July 1. The 1978/79 Import Policy Order came into effect. Besides a few restrictive measures, it introduced a number of liberalizations in substance and procedure. On the restrictive side, the import of sports and games equ ipment was banned even where the items were not produced domestically. Earthenware, china and porce- lain tableware, bath tubs and sanitary ware of enamel, and fluorescent l igh t ing tubes were transferred f rom the free list to the tied list. The import of powdered milk in retail packag ing was tied to the import of milk in bu lk packaging at a ratio of 1:1. Trade with India was returned to a government-to-government basis following the fa i lu re to reach agreement on an extension of the trade agreement which had been informa l ly extended until June 30, 1978. Liberalizations included the raising of the limits of PRs 1.5 million and PRs 2 million on licenses for imports , of p lant and machinery against foreign exchange or against credits, loans, and barter, respectively, to a un i fo rm l im it of PRs 2.5 million; the permission for garment exporters to import nine previously banned types of machinery; the permission for the private sector to import under Part A of the free list grey cement, edible oils, five standardized makes of tractors as well 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN as power tillers, combine harvesters, and other mechani- cal farm ing equipment in competition with the public sector; the permission for the private sector to import types of pesticides not imported by the public sector; the transfer of cold rolled steel tubes from Part C to Part B of the free list; the transfer of ballbearings from Part B to Part A of the free list; the permission for the private sector to import paper egg trays and pectin under Part B of the free list; the permission for marble processing plants to import marble sawing, cutting, rubbing, and polishing equipment and for construction firms to import secondhand and reconditioned machin- ery subject to approval by the Investment Promotion Bureau; and the lifting of the quota on imports of synthetic yarn and the addition of synthetic yarn to Part A of the free list. Procedural liberalizations included the extension of the maximum delay for opening letters of credit against cash licenses from 45 days to 60 days; the reduction in delays in issuing licenses for the import of otherwise banned machinery to firms exporting more than 50 per cent of their production, by fixing a maximum term of 15 days after submission of the request to the Export Promotion Bureau; and the relaxation of the realization certificate requirement for imports under the Raw Materials Replenishment Scheme (see also entry for August 2, below). The procedures governing the issu- ance of advance licenses to meet the production require- ments of fu ture exports were also relaxed. July 1. Numerous adjustments in customs duties took effect in conjunction with the 1978/79 budget. Duties were increased on black and white television sets and their components, refrigerators, and synthetic fibers; they were lowered on loose tea, bus and truck chassis, railway passenger cars, air-conditioning equipment for industry, and photocopying machines; duty rates on rerollable scrap were unified at 55 per cent ad valorem; duties were abolished on textile machinery, machinery for the poultry and dairy industry, raw wool, aircraft and spare parts for flying clubs, artificial limbs, power tillers, and planters. At the same time, the exemption limit for gifts from nationals living abroad was raised from PR s50 to PRs 250; a flat rate of 125 per cent ad valorem was established for books and certain other goods, and one sewing machine per person was per- mitted duty free. July 3. With effect from July 1, 1978 the concessional interest rate on export credits under both parts of the Export Finance Scheme was further reduced from 6 per cent to 3 per cent. The refinancing rate for banks was also lowered from 3 per cent to zero per cent (BCD Circular No. 13 /78). Also with effect from July 1, 1978, the preferential rate for the financing of exports of machinery was further lowered from 5 per cent to 2 per cent with refinancing provided by the State Bank interest free, instead of 3 per cent (BCD Circular No. 14/78). 318 July 12. The limit for reconversion without State Bank approval of Pakistan currency held by foreigners was raised from PRs 150 to PRs 500 (F.E. Circular No. 28 /78 ). July 20. The minimum margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of tobacco for cigarette manufacturers was lowered from 35 per cent to 10 per cent (BCD Circular No. 17/78). July 22. Senior and junior executives were permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$500 and US$250, respectively, for professional training in India (F.E. Circular No. 29 /78 ). August 2. A revised version of the Raw Materials Replenishment Scheme was published by the Chief Con- troller of Exports and Imports (Public Notice No. 31 (78 ) / Impo r t - I ). The revised scheme permitted for the first time the import of sugar for confectionery exporters and of denim, corduroy, and pure synthetic printed fabric for garment exporters. August 10. Until September 30, 1978, nonresident nationals could sponsor their relatives in Pakistan for pilgrimage travel by sending an air or sea fare ticket and remitting US$900 or providing drafts on Saudi banks in Jidda equivalent to US$900 (S.P.A. Circular No. 4 /78 ). August 13. A concessionary rate of import duty of PRs 35.20 per metric ton was introduced on furnace oil. August 16. The 1978/79 Import Policy Order was amended by the transfer of shaving cream, tooth paste, and tooth brushes from Part A of the free list to the tied list (S.R.O. 1008 ( I ) / 7 8 ). August 17. The Ministry of Commerce and Local Government announced that nationals residing abroad for at least two years could henceforth send as gifts to their relatives in Pakistan once every two years and subject to import duty and sales tax, air conditioners, auto rickshaws, knitting machines, certain motorcycles and motorscooters, record players, refrigerators and freezers, tape recorders and cassette players, and tele- vision sets. August 17. Forward cover at the authorized dealers' buying and selling rates vis-a-vis the public was offered by the National Bank of Pakistan (with cover from the State Bank) for imports and exports under barter agreements with Eastern European state trading coun- tries and other barter accounts being maintained in U.S. dollars (F.E. Circular No. 31 /78 ). August 30. The validity of the commodity exchange arrangement between the Trading Corporation of Paki- stan and A.B. Sukab of Sweden was extended to June 30, 1979 for shipments only. The validity limit for the opening of letters of credit remained unchanged at December 31, 1978 (F.E. Circular No. 34 /78). August 30. The exchange quota for private visits to Bangladesh was raised from US$30 to US$80 a person (F.E. Circular No. 35 /78). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN September 3. In announcing the 1978/79 policy on cotton and cotton textiles, the Government lowered the export duty on staple cotton from 25 per cent to 10 per cent ad valorem and introduced rebates on the f.o.b. export value of cotton products, as follows: yarn (7.5 per cen t), grey cloth (10 per cen t ), finished cloth and made-up textiles, including towels, garments, hosiery, and canvas (12.5 per cent). September 19. Exporters of services, such as those of recruiting agents, construction companies, and trade- mark and patent attorneys, became eligible for the blanket permission for tickets and travel exchange for merchandise exporters introduced by F.E. Circular No. 13/77 if their annual foreign exchange earnings were not less than PRs 2.5 million. September 21. Import duties were rebated to the extent of PRs 2.75 per aerosol can of insecticide, pro- vided it was manufactured from imported raw materials by authorized manufacturers. September 21. Import duties were rebated in full for components of tape recording cassettes imported for assembly by recognized manufacturers and used for the recording of Koranic texts. September 24. The import duty and sales tax on cement were abolished. October 2. Refractory brick was exempted from import duty in excess of 40 per cent ad valorem if it was imported by steel remelting units. October 26. The import duty on loose tea was raised f rom 53 per cent cent to 59.5 per cent ad valorem. December 13. The Cotton Export Corporation was instructed not to enter into any new export contracts for staple cotton. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Panama is the Panaman ian Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by silver balboas and subsidiary coin, and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panaman ian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Indus try determines the import quotas for commodities listed in t rade agreements, and the M in is try of Agr icu l ture and Livestock Development, jo in t ly with the Price Regulation Off ice, those for certain agr icu l tural commodities. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on impor ts of commodities compe t ing w i th present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not be ing licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods tu f fs. Other imports are free. Impo r ts by the public sector, however, are subject to special requ iremen ts. Paymen ts abroad may be made free ly. A tax of 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import du ty, on pr iva te sector imports of all du t iab le goods other t h an specified pharmaceutical produc ts and food s tu f f s, for wh ich the ra te is 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most impor ts are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. va lue and all other impo rt taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fue ls, lub r ican ts, and related products, as well as food- s tu f f s, specified medicinal and pharmaceu t ical products, and imports into the Free Zones. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for hum an i t a r i an, educational, medical, or in fo rma t ional 320 purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manu- fac tured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coco- nu ts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, certain foods tuffs, firearms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. Certain non trad i t ional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only w i th nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins w i th face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any fo rm with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any f o rm other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other th an the mone tary authorities; import licenses are issued free ly by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold pro- duced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a du ty of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1978 March. Import quotas were introduced on fresh, chilled, or frozen pork meat, ham, bacon, and other dried, salted, or smoked pork meat. May 12. Import quotas were introduced on plates and cups made of paper and paperboard, security clothing, and workmen's gloves. July 3. Import quotas were introduced on processed American-type cheese. September 1. Under Law No. 52 new duties were announced on imports of passenger automobiles, includ- ing dual-purpose vehicles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the k ina in terms of the Australian dollar, the in terven t ion currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major t rad ing partners. On December 29, 1978, the official buy ing and selling rates for the Aus- tralian dollar were $A 1.2644 and $A 1.2615, respec- tively, per K 1. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea ( the central b ank) deals with local banks in Australian dollars, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars. Buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen are also off ic ia l ly quo ted; the Bank of Papua New Guinea establishes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar on the basis of the m idd le rate for the U.S. dollar in terms of the Australian dollar as quoted by the Reserve Bank of Australia. On December 29, 1978 its buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.4543 and US$1.4517, respectively, per K 1. The corresponding rates for the public posted by the author- ized dealers were $A 1.2672 buy ing, and $A 1.2587 selling, per K 1, and US$1.4571 buy ing, and US$1.4489 selling, per K 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Papua New Guinea forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as f rom December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea administers exchange control according to the Foreign Exchange Regulations issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea and the Depar tment of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea has delegated extensive powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Gu inea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in fore ign exchange. Export licensing is administered by the Depar tment of Foreign Relations and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual comm i tmen ts to persons resident outside Papua New Gu inea, which are expressed in a fore ign currency, must be met by payments in foreign cur- rency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in kina f rom an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; f u n ds credited to such 1 Foreign currencies are def ined as all currencies other than the k ina. accounts may be withdrawn without fu r th er formality. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a fore ign currency. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except for goods imported from Rhodesia. Authorized dealers have powers to approve most transactions with- out completing application fo rms or referr ing to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Approval is given for payment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equipment. There are no import licensing requirements. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of l i fe insurance p rem iums on new policies written after December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not per- m i t ted. No absolute limits are imposed on travel funds, although applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for con- sideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for num isma t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Over- seas visitors are free to take out any currency which they had brought in and recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Gu inea may export goods w i thout exchange control fo rma l i ty (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply with the terms of the general au thor i ty issued by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six mon ths of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the cond i t ions of the general au thor i ty, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, inc lud ing sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are requ ired for all types of goods under the Exports (Con- trol and Va lua t ion) Act. Special provisions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood chips). Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward t rans fe rs of overseas-owned capital are allowed without limit; advance comm i tmen ts, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New invest- ment outside Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private compa- nies, and K 100,000 for public companies. Investment may only be in the form of marke tab le company securi- ties and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of fore ign securities by pe rmanent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be tempo ra ry residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repa tr ia te their surplus earnings without limit. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased fore ign investment in Papua New Gu inea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Gu inea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign inves tmen ts other than those in bank- ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the Na t ional Investment and Development Authority. In add i t ion to investment in the form of loans and equity capital, approval f rom the Bank of Papua New Guinea 2 Foreign securities are de f ined in the Cen t ral B ank ing Act as includ- ing deposits in overseas bank accoun ts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Gu inea. is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebted- ness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold Under the Central Banking (Go ld) Regulations, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is neces- sary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. However, the regulations permit Papua New Guinean miners to export gold to Australia for refining without specific approval. The regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coin with a gold con tent of over K 50. A gold coin valued at K 100 is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out free ly by travelers. Changes during 1978 1 = January 9. The kina was revalued from K $A 1.1565 to K 1 = $A 1.203. April 10. The kina was appreciated to K 1 = $A 1.2196 owing to a change in the currency basket. May 23. A new Trademarks Act was passed by the Na t ional Parliament. June 5. The National Investment and Development Authority released the four th national investment prior- ity schedule, which made it possible for foreigners to engage in previously restricted ventures without substan- t ia l, and in some cases any, local equity. June 5. It was announced that the official value of the k ina in terms of the Australian dollar would be quoted each day instead of being adjusted at irregular intervals. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at 0 126 = US$1. There are two exchange markets. Exports and imports (except unrecorded border t rade ), certain services, all government transactions, payments made under the reciprocal credit mechanism of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA), and registered private transactions and related profit remittances are channeled through the official market (mercado libre bancario), where the buy ing or selling rates are 0 126 per US$1, subject to certain taxes and commissions. A tax of 1.5 per cent is levied on pur- chases and sales of exchange in the official market, except for transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Invest- ment Law No. 550/75. All transactions not channeled through the official market pass through the fluctuating free market (mercado libre fluctuante) in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1978 the buy ing and selling rates in the fluctuating free market were 0 138 and 0 142, respectively, per US$1. Addi- tional selling rates arise from taxes of 10 per cent on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and of 30 per cent on outward remittances of interest, income shares, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned ma in ta in with each other, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Clearing takes place every four months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. 1 A rg en t ine pesos, Be lg ian f ranc s, B raz i l ian cruze iros, Danish k ron e r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, I ta l ian l ire, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authoriza- tion.2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are mainly narcotics, gambling devices, and arms and ammunition. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.3 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodi- ties are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value for a period of not less than 120 days. Advance deposits are not required for public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, cement, and printed matter from any source, imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and imports from other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan conces- sion list (the National L is t ). The Central Bank has au thor i ty to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals in a special list), the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is sub- ject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). There is an addi- t ional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the t ime of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, which- ever is earlier. The following are the principal exemp- tions from the exchange surcharge: imports of wheat, cement, crude petroleum, equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, impo r ts for the Government, imports for religious, chari- table, cu l tura l, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organiza- tions. Also, agricultural and industrial machinery and equ ipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program, books and periodicals, and imports for investments under Investment Law 2 These inc lude tab le w ine in bu lk, na tu ral grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or w i th any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, w ire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions d u r i ng local harvest seasons. 3 These inc lude ce r ta in tex t i les and con t inuous fo rms for use in cash registers and compu te rs and also impor ts intended for re-export. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY No. 550/75 are exempt. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff sur- charge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 to 24 per cent (8 to 16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and the surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value, calculated as the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and Uru- guay, or the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this additional import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports, raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes, imports under the Investment Law and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax ranging from 5-10 per cent. Supplementary charges that formerly were levied on imports (a consular fee of 5 per cent, a cus- toms surcharge of 1.5 per cent for the National Insti- tute of Technology and Standards, and a 1 per cent charge on imports of construction materials for the Institute of Housing and Urban Development) have been replaced by a 15 per cent ad valorem levy. There is a unified import duty of 12 per cent for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain delays arise from time to time as a result of the system of releasing foreign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Payments through the LAFTA clearing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all current invisibles are chan- neled through the free market, with the exception of travel tickets for foreign technicians hired by govern- ment agencies and remittances of principal and interest on capital brought into the country and registered at the Central Bank under Investment Law No. 550/75. The General Banking Law establishes a scale for the remit- tance of profits through the official market and author- izes 30 per cent of any one year's profits for commer- cial banks and financial institutions and 60 per cent for investment, development, and mortgage banks; the remaining profits must be reinvested in the financial sector or in other specifically authorized activities, and 20 per cent of such reinvested amounts may be trans- ferred abroad annually. All other remittances, such as 324 students' living expenses abroad, payments for travel tickets, medical services, private gifts, family assistance, and any other services are channeled through the free market. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 per cent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and/or the Ministry of Agriculture and Stock Raising. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange. For all exports the Central Bank establishes minimum export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds cor- responding either to these prices or to the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; for coffee exports, however, the equivalent of 50 per cent of the minimum export price may be retained and used to pay dividends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for machinery and equipment imported for their own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) published by the Ministry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranies, ranging from 2.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. There is a tax of 5 per cent on exports of soybeans, except for exports by cooperatives; exports of expellers and soybean flour are tax exempt. One group of exports is subject to an additional tax of 1.5 per cent. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. There are no sur- render requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide foreign exchange at the official market rate for transfers of registered capital, subject to presentation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of appropriate documentation. All other capital move- ments are channeled through the free market (i.e., the exchange houses) with the prior approval of the Central Bank. Investment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Gov- ernment to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed invest- ments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of produc- tion, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and non- residents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry, by nonbank residents and industrial users, require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. PARAGUAY Changes during 1978 February 2. By Central Bank Resolution No. 18 bankers' acceptances were limited to an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum and a maturity of no longer than 180 days (Circular No. 12 /78). March 28. All authorized banks dealing with foreign exchange transactions were instructed to obtain all rele- vant trade documents (consular invoices, certificate of origin, bill of lading, etc.) prior to effecting any foreign exchange payments (Circular No. 18 /78). July 14. The unified import duty for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry was reduced from 35 per cent to 12 per cent (Decree No. 40840). July 14. Decree No. 40841 established a unified 15 per cent ad valorem tax on imports as a substitute for the additional and complementary duties (consular fee, customs surcharge, and a 1 per cent charge on imports of construction materials). August 11. The prohibition on imports of cotton yarn was lifted (Decree No. 41487). September 14. The prior licensing requirement was revoked for exports of oil seeds, mate, processed rice, cottonseed cake and expeller, soap, cement, linters, coconut expeller, peanut expeller, bristles, meat meal, dry blood, Paraguayan cane corn, tobacco, pens, tanned hides, cotton fiber, molasses, vegetable oils, and que- bracho extract. The prior licensing requirement was retained for wheat bran, sugar, industrial feed, cattle fat, coffee, untanned and unprocessed hides and skins, and tung and tartago seeds. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on January 1, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, and is adjusted frequen t ly on the basis of a set of indicators. Exchange market transactions may also be conducted in 12 other currencies.1 All exchange transactions must be conducted through the bank ing system, and banks operating in the market are required to limit the margin between their buying and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent. No commissions are charged by the Central Reserve Bank on any exchange transaction. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 195.687 and S/. 196.680, respec- tively, per US$1. Banks may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents and may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these bank certificates must not be derived f rom export proceeds. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amounts not less than US$1,000 and have a ma tur i ty no longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for making all permitted payments and transfers, including import payments. All foreign exchange receipts of residents must be sold to the banking system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign cur- rency certificates of deposit. Export proceeds, including loans for the pref inanc ing of exports, must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues foreign exchange certificates equal to 55 per cent of the value of such receipts, and converts the remaining 45 per cent into soles at the official buying rate. The exchange certificates are denominated in U.S. dollars, are valid for three days, and are issued payable to the exporter's bank. The bank credits the exporter's account with the equivalent amount of soles at the buying rate of the sol on the day the receipts were surrendered, but the exporter retains the preferred right to repurchase an equivalent value of exchange certificates to meet his own foreign currency obligations. If not utilized within three days, the certificates are canceled and the cor- responding amount is credited to the account of the bank at the buying rate at the close of the preceding business day, minus a discount of 2 per cent. All per- mitted foreign exchange payments and transfers may be 1 Belgian f r an c s, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, together with U.S. dollars, are prescribed for external t rade transac- tions. For non t rade transactions operations may also be effec ted in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, and Swedish kroner. 326 effected either by means of exchange certificates, which are a claim on the Central Reserve Bank, or by the direct purchase of foreign exchange f rom the banking system at the official rate, or by the encashment of foreign currency certificates of deposit purchased at the prevailing market rate, or directly f rom foreign currency accounts. Peru forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Tourism, and Integration. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts f rom exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. Public sector imports require the approval of the Board for External Trans- actions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 also require a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a govern- ment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the High Committee of the External Debt, the National Planning Ins t i tu te, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The National Commission on Investment and Foreign Tech- nology (CONITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most payments for invisibles require the approval of either CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 13 prescribed convertible currencies,1 but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under a bilateral payments agreement. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Goods not included in the List of Permitted Imports may not be imported (except for goods from Andean Pact countries and g i f t s ). Moreover, the import of a large number of manufac tures included in the National Register of Manufac tured Products requires the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, Indus try, Tourism, and Integration, which is granted only in exceptional cir- cumstances unless the goods originate in a country of the Andean Pact. For goods on the List of Permitted Imports that are also on the National Register of Manu- fac tu red Products, the importer must show that local production is insufficient in quantity or quality. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Each import transaction of the private sector requires a specific import license, which is issued automatically by the Directorate of Foreign Trade, provided that the importer is listed in the National Registry of Importers, that the goods are included in the List of Permitted Imports, and that the requirements described above with regard to the National Register of Manu fac tu red Prod- ucts are met. Imports f rom countries of the Andean Pact, however, do not require an import license and need only be registered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Also, impor ts of raw materials and in te rmed ia te goods for the production of non t rad i t ional exports are exempted f rom import duties and do not requ ire a specific import license, provided that the appropriate m in is try de term ines that such imports qua l i fy under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain agr icu l tural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by the Fish Meal Market- ing Agency ( E P CHA P ), and crude petroleum and petro- leum der iva t ives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Certain indus t r ial raw materials and fertilizers may be imported only by the Na t ional Enterprise for Indus tr ial Ma rke t ing (ENC I ). All p r iva te and public sector imports are subject to certain m in imum external f inanc ing terms except food- s tu f fs and pha rmaceu t ical products, import shipments valued at not more than US$10,000 up to an annual total of US$100,000 for each impor ter, and imports paid for w i th fore ign cu r rency certificates of deposit issued by the bank ing system. For impor ts of capital goods va lued at over US$20,000 f.o.b., at least 80 per cent of the va lue must be f inanced abroad th rough loans either f rom suppliers or f r om other fo re ign creditors or f rom the Pe ruv ian state deve lopment banks, to be repaid in accordance w i th prescribed m i n im um credit terms of f rom two to four years. State deve lopment banks may only prov ide such f inanc ing for na t ional enterprises. All other impor ts are subject to a m in imum ex ternal f inanc ing requ i rement of 150 days. Impor ts of cap i tal goods must be covered by irrevocable documen ta ry credits and the in te rmed ia t ing bank must guaran tee r e fund ing of the fore ign currency if the import is not PERU effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. All goods, whether imported or produced domestically, are subject to a sales tax, levied at a general rate of 22 per cent, a maximum rate of 42 per cent, preferential rates between 2 per cent and 8 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effective rates of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent; there is also a list of exempted items. A maritime freight tax of 6 per cent of the ocean fre ight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coin. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for invisibles, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized freely, provided genuine current payments are involved. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Rem i t tance of net profits, inc lud ing depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. Remittance of profits on for- eign capital invested in Peru is limited to 20 per cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted in exceptional cases.2 All payments for royalties, patents, t radema rk s, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent com- pany or its affiliates. The effective interest rate on a new loan f rom a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing in te rest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the coun try in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Central Reserve Bank approval is required for purchases of exchange for payments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and humani- ta r ian purposes, for income, insurance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expenditures of agencies, branches, and offices of nonresident firms. Interest paymen ts by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The annual l im it on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$1,000 a person (US$500 a year for ch i ldren under 12 ). For business travel the limit is US$100 a person a day up to a limit of US$1,500 a trip, plus US$500 a t r ip for representation expenses; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is requ ired for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel there is a US$35 flat tax payable in na t ional currency. Student remittances requ ire the approval of the National In s t i tu te of Scholarships and Educa t ional Loans ( INA B E C) and are generally limited to US$500 a month. Limits are also established for medical travel and for 2 Companies expo r t ing at least 80 per cent of the ir produc t ion to coun t r i es ou ts ide the Andean Pact and m in ing companies are exempt. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian residents are limited to US$100 a month and require the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. Foreigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 per cent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obli- gations, but those who avail themselves of these pro- visions are required to waive all rights to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the above limits in jus t if ied cases. Nonresidents visiting Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$50 in foreign exchange on presentation of evi- dence that at least that amount in foreign exchange had been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. The export of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and M INEROPERU and the Banco Minero over exports of gold and silver. M INPECO has a monopoly over mineral exports, EPCHAP has a monopoly over exports of fish meal, fish oil, coffee, and cotton, and EPSEP over exports of fish for human consumption. All exports are subject to license, and all export proceeds, as well as export prefinancing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within ten working days of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional exports or local handi- c ra ft articles are granted transferab le tax credit certifi- cates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equivalent to a max imum of 30 per cent of the c. & f. value ( the f.o.b. value is used when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels).3 These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion admin- isters an export credit guarantee program and the Indus tr ial Bank provides or arranges export finance for non t rad i t ional exports. Traditional exports are subject to a tax of 17.5 per cent, which is payable in soles. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold to the bank ing system or deposited in authorized fore ign 3 In add i t ion, 2 per cent is allowed for new exports, 10 per cent for expor ts f r om outside the Lima-Callao area, and 10 per cent for goods considered to be p r io r i ty exports. 328 exchange accounts within ten working days of receipt. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian currency, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exceptional treatment in special circumstances. Capital All outward capital transfers require approval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment the approval of CONITE is required, while for most other transfers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. Minimum maturities and grace periods for dif- ferent categories of external loans contracted or guar- anteed by the public sector have been established and are set for th in Decree-Law No. 22149 of April 18, 1978. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. In cases where proceeds of foreign loans have been used to purchase foreign currency bank certificates of deposit or to make deposits directly to foreign currency accounts, amortization payments on such loans are not eligible for transfer at the official exchange certificate rate. Banks may receive funds originating abroad in the fo rm of drafts, checks, bank transfers, foreign currency travelers checks, or foreign notes and coin for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue foreign exchange certificates of deposit against such funds. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and both are exempt from income and inheritance taxes until December 31, 1980. Under an exchange amnesty, residents may repa- triate foreign assets without specifying the origin of such fund s, and without facing penalties for having violated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. Such repatriated funds are exempt from all taxes, including income taxes. In compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects con- sidered essential for the country's development. If a foreign company, incorporated in Peru as of July 1, 1971, wished to benefit f rom the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to agree, by June 30, 1974, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 per cent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 per cent af ter 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of fore ign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign invest- ments in firms engaged in basic industries or in mining activities (including petroleum p roduc t ion) and in firms that export at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt f rom the requirement of gradual t rans fo rma t ion into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enterprises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than 3 years, or in amounts greater than their capital and reserves. Investment in the m in ing sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding m in ing con- cessions may enter into m in ing contracts with the Gov- ernment providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises w i th government participation of at least 25 per cent. The Government may grant to m in ing concessionaries (initiating large- scale inves tment p rog rams) tax incentives and guaran- teed availability of fore ign exchange for transfers for ( 1) recovery of investment, (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market f rom which the loans originate, ( 3) paymen ts for jus t i f ied services, and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranted access to the most favorab le exchange rate. Mixed m in ing enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract, and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold and silver in the fo rm of agglom- erated or native metals is the monopoly of M INEROPERU, while their export in the fo rm of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. The authori- ties do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, pro- vided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs (S /. 15,000 when visiting neighboring countries). Changes during 1978 After having been maintained at approximately S/. 130 per US$1 since the end of 1977, the exchange rate for the sol was depreciated from S/. 130 per US$1 PERU to S/. 150 per US$1 during May 10-16, 1978. Subse- quently, the ra te was adjusted frequently, and on December 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 195.687 and S/. 196.680, respec- tively, per US$1. April 4. The share of export proceeds converted directly into soles upon surrender to the Central Reserve Bank was raised f rom 35 per cent to 45 per cent. Foreign exchange certificates would continue to be issued against the balance of the export proceeds, after the tax on trad i t ional exports had been deducted where applicable (see also entry for June 27, be low). April 18. Decree-Law No. 22149 established mini- mum ma tur i t ies and grace periods for various categories of fore ign loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector and established a global limit of US$300 million a year f rom 1978 through 1981 on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed debt with a maturity of more than one year but less than ten years. May 4. It was announced that foreign exchange certificates issued by the Central Reserve Bank against the surrender of export proceeds were to be made payable to the bank through which the proceeds were surrendered, while the counterpart in soles was to be credited to the exporter's account. The exporter would have the preferred right to purchase the equivalent in fore ign exchange certificates to meet his foreign obliga- tions. Previously, foreign exchange certificates, were issued to the exporter who had to use them to effect payments or sell them to the bank ing system within three days of issue (Exchange Resolution No. 002-78-EF/90). May 9. Decree-Law No. 22164 raised the flat travel tax for all tourist and business travel by 50 per cent to S/. 3,000 for the first five days spent abroad and S/. 300 for each additional day. Decree-Law No. 22166 raised the tax on traditional exports from 15 per cent to 17.5 per cent. Medium-sized zinc mines were exempted f rom the tax on traditional exports. Decree-Laws Nos. 22171 and 22172 reduced import duty exonera- tions for imports of capital and intermediate goods. Decree-Law No. 22173 imposed a temporary 10 per cent import surcharge, effective through December 31, 1978. Certain goods, such as food, fertilizers, and medicine, were exempted f rom this surcharge, as were imports under various regional trade agreements. June 1. Residents were authorized to use foreign currency travelers checks or foreign notes and coin to make deposits to foreign currency accounts or to pur- chase certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies. Previously, certificates of deposit in foreign currency could be issued only against draf ts, checks, or bank transfers, and the same limitation applied to deposits in foreign currency accounts (Exchange Resolu- tion No. 003-78-EF/90). June 8. It was announced that a Peruvian resident could be party to a local contract expressed in terms of a foreign currency where the obligation to pay foreign 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU currency could be met f rom his own foreign currency earnings or holdings, provided that such earnings or holdings were not derived from the f.o.b. value of exports (Exchange Resolution No. 005-78-EF/90). June 27. The tax on traditional exports was made payable in soles. October 22. Decree-Law No. 22317 modified the tax on tourism. Instead of a 30 per cent tax on passages and fares and a flat travel tax of S/. 3,000 for the first five days spent abroad, there would be a flat tax of US$35, payable in national currency. October 26. The minimum foreign financing terms for imports by the private sector were reduced from 180 days to 150 days, with effect from November 1, 1978. Import shipments valued at less than US$3,000 and up to an annual total of US$50,000 were exempted from the m in imum foreign financing requirement. Previously, the exemption covered shipments valued at less than US$2,000 and up to an annual total of US$25,000 (Exchange Resolution No. 011-78-EF/90). November 14. The time period within which export proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank was extended f rom within three working days of receipt to within five working days of receipt (Exchange Resolution No. 013-78-EF/90). November 21. Decree-Law No. 22342 set out the guidelines of a program to promote nontraditional exports. In addition to extending fiscal and other incen- tives for ten years, this law created a Committee for the Promotion of Nontraditional Exports and a Fund for the Promotion of Nontraditional Exports (FOPEX). Implementing regulations would be issued at a later date. December 22. It was announced that effective Janu- ary 1, 1979, import shipments valued at no more than US$10,000 f.o.b. and up to an annual total of US$100,000 for each importer would be exempted from the 150-day minimum foreign financing terms for imports. The special minimum foreign financing terms for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$20,000 would be reduced and the following schedule would be established: two years for imports valued between US$20,001 and US$250,000; three years for imports valued between US$250,001 and US$1 million; and four years for imports valued at more than US$1 million and up to US$5 million. Financing terms for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$5 mil- lion would have to be agreed with the Central Reserve Bank (Exchange Resolution No. 015-78-EF/90). 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and other policy objectives in the medium term. The Bankers' Associa- tion establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 29, 1978 this rate was P 7.3750 per US$1. The buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Philippines for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency and the sole currency quoted, on the same date were P 7.3381 and P 7.4303, respectively, per US$1. In spot transactions of less than US$100,000 with their customers, commer- cial banks are required by the Association to observe ce r ta in marg ins. The max imum and m in imum spot buy- ing rates are 0.50 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, below the gu id ing rate. The m in imum and max imum spot se l l ing rates are 0.75 per cent and 1.25 per cent, respectively, above the gu id ing rate. For transactions in excess of US$100,000, the marg ins are determined compe t i t ive ly. The Central Bank is not governed by the Association's t rad ing rules in mak ing its own pur- chases and sales of fore ign exchange. In terbank t rad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX ), where the Central Bank from t ime to time acts as a buyer or as a supp l ier. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regu la t ions are adm in is tered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Mone tary Board. Certain new fore ign direct or por tfo l io inves tment in the Ph i l ipp ines requires the p r ior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Most paymen ts and transfers to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether ind iv idual or corporate, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only w i th the proceeds f rom inward rem i t tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and w i th peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties 1 Au s t r i an schillings, Canad ian dollars, deu tsche m a r k, French francs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from non- resident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and nonresi- dents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, national welfare, and security, and those of certain others, mostly agricultural commodities, for protective purposes. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of specified commodities are subject to prior approval of the Central Bank.2'3 Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classi- fied under three categories of consumer goods (unclassi- fied, semiunclassified, and nonessential) or for completely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Any importation of p lan t, machinery, equ ipmen t, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with ma tur i ty periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or within 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importa- tion by any single importer of nonagricultural machinery and equ ipment w i th an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 w i th in a calendar month, w i th the exception of certified export-oriented firms, and other importers who have obtained prescribed cer t if ica t ion f rom the BOI. Trade with any of the state t rad ing countries must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of paymen t, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open account (O/A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A pro- cedures is confined ma in ly to firms with a history of impo r t ing under these arrangements prior to February 21, 2 Au tho r ized agent banks have been instructed not to accept applica- t ions for le t ters of credit or fore ign exchange in respect of specified tex t i le p roduc ts t h at are subject to a mo ra to r ium. 3 Cen tral Bank approval is requ ired for paymen ts for imports of cer- t a in syn the t ic fibers; certain syn the t ic ya rns; all textile machinery and equ ipm en t; beef; ships and appu r tenances there to; sodium cyanide; excava t ing mach ine ry; concrete m ixe rs and pavers; wagons, trailers, and ca r ts; ce r ta in motor vehicles and tractors; and steel billets, ingots, hot- rolled coils and sheets, and other steel produc ts listed under Commodity G roup 681. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 1970; to producer firms established after that date and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI, or are franchised utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these pro- cedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$100 (US$500 for publications) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed condi- tions, and are exempt f rom the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only af ter a schedule for the repayment of over- due obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports border regions by barter traders. into Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amoun ts of more than US$100 are sub- s tan t ia ted by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, ma in tenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see below). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by authorized agent banks, as follows: US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an additional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; US$500 a year for each adu lt resident for non- business travel to A f r ica, Nor th and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the M idd le East, and New Zea land; and US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to the Republic of China, Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, or any other neighboring country. The fo l low ing limits apply to exchange for educa- t ional expenses abroad for students unde r tak ing degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities: for studies in the Un i ted States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tu i t ion, 332 books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. The following limits apply for remittances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, or New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The maintenance allowances for depend- ents are allowed only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized since January 1, 1973, are permitted in full, provided that remittances are not financed f rom domestic credit. Profits earned and dividends declared before January 1, 1973 (which had been unremittable for some time) may be remitted over a period of two years, depending on the amounts involved. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity that is manu fac tu red locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of marketing service contracts), and that contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the producer's share of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be purchased f rom authorized agent banks, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philippines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 1,000 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 600 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Philippine nationals mak ing their first pilgrimage to Mecca. ' ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registra- tion of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central Bank); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clear- ance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and unless collec- tion of the proceeds will be und e r t ak en by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic t rans fe r, check, or mail t r an s f er may be allowed. Pay- ments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed currency within 60 days f rom the date of shipment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to the Re- public of China, Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of machinery, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of ma jor exports. The rate is 6 per cent for copra and cen tr ifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut oil, desic- cated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chrom i te ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, unm anu f a c tu r ed abaca, unmanufac tured tobacco, canned pineapples, shrimps and prawns, bunker fuel oil, bananas, cement clinker, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and resi- dues; and 2 per cent for copper ore and copper concen- trates. However, the export taxes on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. Certain tradi- tional export commodities are subject to premium export duties; those on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. PHILIPPINES The Philippine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state trading countries is handled through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. There are separate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. Philippine na t iona ls employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplo- matic establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender require- ments, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obligations. Bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferab le abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their foreign earnings, rang ing from 30 per cent to 70 per cent of earnings. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. The "1,500-Peso IMF-IBRD" gold coins and the "Ang Bangong Lipunan" are exempt f rom these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain bank- ing operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, export-oriented industries, and other (non- export-oriented) industries not utilizing domestic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made af ter March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a m in imum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except investments in domestic commercial banks, which, if made af ter March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatria- tion of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) invest- ments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in full but no annual install- ment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual installments starting one year af ter the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for investments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual install- ments after liquidation; US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments af ter liquidation; and over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquidation. During the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, liquidation proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade trans- actions. They may, however, accept deposits in nine scheduled currencies4 from nonresidents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 per cent withholding tax. Eighteen domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit un it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds f rom inter- national money markets for domestic on-lending. Non- bank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The ma tur i ty may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to US$250,000 4 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 334 (with certain exceptions), not less than 8 years for amounts between US$250,000 and US$500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than US$500,000. For export industries, amounts exceeding US$500,000 are approved if the credit has a maturity of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal; and for amounts less than US$150,000, 3-year or 4-year maturities may be permitted, depending on the amount of credit and the type of export industry. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms that are in arrears with government financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may transfer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year f rom emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- tracts or transactions involving assets within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Eighteen foreign banks have been authorized to oper- ate offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency trans- actions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. All investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the fo rmer are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and at least 60 per cent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Foreign Investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 must ob ta in prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission f rom the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. With effect from January 1, 1978 the Central Bank purchases the entire output of the 12 domestic primary gold producers. The producers are paid in Philippine pesos based on the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official in te rna t ional reserves. Small gold panners are exempt f rom the scheme. Residents other than the mone tary au tho r i t ies, authorized gold dealers, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any fo rm other than jewelry. A gold coin w i th a face value of P 1,000 has been issued, wh ich is legal tender; ano ther gold coin valued at P 1,500 was issued in connection with the 1976 A n n u al Meetings of the IMF and the IBRD in Man i la. These coins may be imported freely by travelers as well as resident physical or jur id ical persons. With this exception, imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1978 January 1. Tar iffs were reduced on certain goods imported f rom other member countries of the Associa- tion of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN ), including ball bearings, crude gypsum, maize, mea t, palm oil, and trac tor tires. January 1. The Central Bank announced its intention to purchase all f u t u re output of the country's 12 gold m in ing firms. The producers would be paid in Philippine pesos, based on the prevailing peso-U.S. dollar rate and on the London fixing price. The gold so acquired would be deemed part of the coun t ry 's in te rna t ional reserves. Small panners were exempted f rom the scheme. January 10. The Philippine Government published Letter of Ins t ruc t ion No. 656 restricting the impor ta t ion of parts, components, and supplies to be used for the local manu fac tu re of television and radio equ ipmen t. The restriction was imposed in support of the Electronics Local Content Program, in tended to increase the domes- tic produc t ion of certain radio and television equipment, and would be subject to periodic review by the BOI. PHILIPPINES April 17. Regulations were issued on the refining and sale of gold mined in the Philippines (Circular No. 602). May 5. Under authority of Decree No. 1309 of April 19, 1078, the Central Bank established new guide- lines for domestic on-lending of the funds raised under its Consolidated Foreign Borrowings Program. The Cen- tral Bank would charge sub-borrowers a rate of not more than 0.125 per cent over the interest on the consolidated foreign credit. Sub-borrowers were authorized to relend the loan proceeds but in the same foreign currency as the corresponding foreign credit obtained from the Central Bank. Repayment of the subloans would be in Philippine pesos. June 8. The Philippine Coconut Authority imposed a quota on the importation of refined coconut oil. June 15. The Central Bank invalidated all unused portions of special permits dated December 31, 1977 or earlier for the import of controlled items. New import authorizations would have a validity of only 90 days, and would become invalid automatically, unless utilized w i th in that period. August 1. Domestic enterprises wishing to borrow abroad were required to raise their paid-up capitalization before applying to borrow f rom foreign commercial sources. Only those enterprises ma in ta in ing debt-equity ratios of at least 75:25 would be permitted to borrow. August 1. It was announced that Philippine banks must con t inue to ma in ta in 100 per cent foreign currency cover for their foreign currency liabilities, but only 70 per cent of this needed to be in the same currency as the l iab i l i ty; the balance could be in any of 11 cur- rencies approved by the Central Bank. August 11. By amendment to Circular No. 547 FCDUs were required to ma in ta in 100 per cent eligible foreign currency cover not only for deposit liabilities but also for all other foreign currency liabilities. How- ever, FCDUs were exempted f rom the requirement of m a i n t a i n i ng 15 per cent of the cover in the form of foreign currency deposits with the Central Bank (Circular No. 623). September 10. Domestic banks authorized to deal in foreign currencies and offshore banking units were empowered to grant fore ign currency loans, not exceed- ing 360 days, to export and registered industries without first ob ta in ing Central Bank approval. Central Bank prior approval of all loans not exceeding 360 days would con t inue to be required for all other borrowers. December 13. All applications for travel allocations by Philippine residents to visit Hong Kong were to be referred to the Foreign Exchange Department of the Cen tral Bank, accompanied by an explanation of the purpose of the travel. December 18. Firms engaged in the recruitment, p lacemen t, or l iv ing arrangemen ts of Philippine workers for overseas employment were to become special author- ized fore ign exchange dealers of the Central Bank (Amendment to Circular No. 135 of Janua ry 21, 1962). 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted at relatively short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies,1 weighted according to their importance in Portugal's international transactions in merchandise, tourism, and private trans- fers. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo for six-month periods. On May 5, 1978, in combination with a 6.1 per cent depreciation of the effective exchange rate, it was announced that Portugal would follow a policy of depreciating the escudo by about 1.25 per cent a month in effective terms. On December 31, 1978 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 45.927 and Esc 46.093, respectively, per US$1. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.0750 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange mar- ket. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in fore ign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign cur- rencies f rom residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the M in is try of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that fore ign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. On May 5, 1978, the Bank of Portugal discontinued the practice of quo t ing forward exchange rates, pre- viously provided for periods of one, three, and six mon ths for ten foreign currencies. 1 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche m a r k, Finnish m a rkk a a, French francs. I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Rates for these currenc ies and also for the South A f r ican rand are quoted by the Bank of Po r tuga l; these rates are determined on the basis of U.S. do l lar rates in exchange ma rke ts abroad. 336 Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. This Directorate-General also administers trade controls; import and export licenses are issued by its Foreign Trade Division, or by other duly authorized executive departments. All imports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million are subject to prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Committee; this screening is intended only to prevent overinvoicing and underinvoicing. Almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the M in is try of Trade and Tourism. State agencies under tak ing international trade transactions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Greece and Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled in the quoted currencies.1 (Canadian dollars, Finnish markkaa, Japanese yen, and South Afri- can rand may only be used in transactions with the relative countries.) Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into (1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal for payments for trans- actions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metro- politan Portugal and foreign countries and for transfers between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of over- d ra f ts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has special clearing arrangements2 are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. 2 Greece and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by fore ign correspondents and are in excess of the amoun ts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for paymen ts in escudos to resi- dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Por- tuguese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the fo rm of cu r rent accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of w i thd rawa l, or time accounts. Without prior authoriza- t ion f rom the Bank of Portugal, deposit accounts may be credited only with remittances f rom abroad received through the bank ing system or in the fo rm of an in t e rn a t ion al postal order, the equivalent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit institutions by em igran ts, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited w i thout restrictions. Nonres iden ts may open t ime fo re ign accounts in eight fo re ign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with remittances f rom abroad and w i th the related interest due and may be debited w i thout restrictions. However, a nonresident w ish ing to use the f u n ds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations currently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, ma in ly for rea- sons of health, public order, and the prevention of com- mercial f r a u d. Any physical or ju r id ical entity may be an impor ter; impor ters must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the fo rm of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 5,000. Almost all imports f rom all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin enables the importer to obtain the necessary fore ign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license (but for imports valued at over Esc 5 million prior authorization must be obtained f rom the Foreign Trade Control Committee). The validity of the bulletin is 3 months for customs clearance purposes, and 12 months f rom the date of customs clearance for settlement pur- poses. Personal baggage and imports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bulletin, except when forming part of an order with a total va lue exceeding Esc 5,000 and provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Payments beyond one year af ter customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, coffee, and bananas, are PORTUGAL subject to quota limitations in value terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other agricultural products, certain na tural or manufac tured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, inc lud ing motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; impor ts f rom these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported f rom other GATT countries, are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports f rom countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authori- za t ions; imports f rom some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral t rad ing arrangements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- tu r al imports f rom certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized indus tr ial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in EFTA or EEC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. Imports of passenger automobiles of EFTA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of non-EFTA origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EEC origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. In December 1978, it was announced that eligibility for 30 per cent of the 1979 quota for unassembled automobiles would depend on actual exports of at least the same amount. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain imports and foreign financing is required for certain imports. M in imum proportions of foreign financing and m in imum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gen- erally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the author- ized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portugal, Madeira, and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 250,000, the individual ceilings varying according to the type of operation. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a year, Esc 15,000 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 10,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists may take out of the coun try Esc 5,000 in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, ind iv idual remittances of profits and dividends in excess of US$250,000 are subject to phasing for a period of up to six months, depending on the prevailing balance of payments situation. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be deposited with domestic banks in accounts denominated in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 5,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). Exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million require prior authoriza- tion by the Foreign Trade Control Committee. Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pri- ma ry purpose of this procedure is to enforce the pre- scription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000, do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Re-exports of merchandise are exempt f rom prior regis- tration, regardless of their value. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign cur- rency indicated in the bulletin; the maximum period for repatriation of export proceeds is fixed at 4 months. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of com- mission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges f rom the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun- tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts require authorization 338 by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restric- tion once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in banknotes, coin, and checks denominated in foreign currency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coin by nonresidents for other purposes require authori- zation by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 20,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amount. Re turn ing residents may also b r ing in any amount up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bank- notes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coin. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bankno tes or coin for the settlement of external transactions. Capital All pr iva te capital transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 50 million and with a ma tu r i ty of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are permitted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to private enter- prise corporations. An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund provides exchange risk insurance against losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 per cent on approved fore ign borrowing. The transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the liquida- tion of foreign investments is authorized after five years, but for large amounts the Bank of Portugal may require that the t rans fer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guarantees may be provided. Foreign loans and their repayments are authorized as necessary. Capital movements and transfers of assets are subject to ceilings (up to which they are authorized auto- matically), according to Portugal's reservations to the OECD code of liberalization of capital movements. For larger amounts authorizations may be granted on the merits of each case. Direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when car- ried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao arid nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1978 February 6. Regulations were introduced, imposing penalties on the deferment of liquidation of export earn- ings beyond 120 days after shipment, when such defer- ments were for noncommercial reasons. May 5. The Bank of Portugal discontinued the prac- tice of quoting forward exchange rates, previously pro- v ided for ten fo re ign currencies for one, three, and six mon ths. May 30. The 30 per cent surcharge on impor ts was extended un t il December 31, 1978. PORTUGAL June 22. The global quotas on imports of certain con- sumer goods during the 12-month period to March 31, 1979 were increased in terms of escudos. September 14. New procedures were introduced, aimed at speeding up the processing of applications for exemption from the import surcharge. September 29. By Decree No. 300/78 the 30 per cent import surcharge was reduced to 20 per cent, effective October 1, 1978. November 9. The official limits on sales of foreign exchange for tourism and other private travel were raised to the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a year for those aged at least 18 years, Esc 15,000 for those between 12 and 18 years, and Esc 10,000 for those under 12. Travelers were allowed to take into and out of Portugal Portuguese banknotes up to an amount of Esc 5,000. December 6. Import quotas in terms of value for unassembled automobiles were announced for 1979. Eligibility to 30 per cent of the established quotas would depend on actual exports of at least the same amount. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 2978) Exchange Rate System Imports and Import Payments The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 per cent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 30, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.8370 and QR 3.8400, respectively, per US$1. On the same date the buying and selling rates for the pound sterling were QR 7.8295 and QR 7.8545, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Monetary Agency does not deal in pounds sterling. The commercial banks' exchange rates for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buy- ing and selling rates. Although spreads outside these rates may vary according to the customer and the size of the transaction, the max imum spread permitted by the Monetary Agency is 0.87 dirhams. On December 30, 1978 the commercial banks' max imum permitted buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.8283 and QR 3.8487, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dol- lar, and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. There is an agreement between Qatar, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates whereby, for the convenience of travelers, bankno tes denom ina ted in Qatar riyals, Bahra in dinars, and U.A.E. d irhams are interchangeable (up to a l im it of QR 5,000 or BD 500 or Dh 5,000) at the fixed rates of QR 10 = BD 1 = Dh 10. On Janu- ary 28, 1978 these three currencies became un i fo rm ly aligned with the U.S. dollar (fo l low ing a 1.8 per cent revaluation of the Qatar r iya l ). Qatar fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund agreement, with effect f rom June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qa tar Mone tary Agency is the exchange control au thor i ty, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are proh ib i ted. No other prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Nonresident Accounts No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 340 All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammu- nition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Foreign participation in cer ta in indus tr ial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar na t iona ls control at least 51 per cent of the shares. For ma jor indus tr ial projects it is government policy to assume 70 per cent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and w i thout payment of customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1978 January 28. The currencies of Qatar, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates were un i fo rm ly aligned with the U.S. dollar, so as to eliminate arbitrage opportunities in the bankno te exchange system. The value of the Qatar riyal was appreciated by 1.8 per cent to QR 3.8770 buy ing, and QR 3.8800 selling, per US$1. September 14. The value of the riyal was adjusted to QR 3.8570 buying, and QR 3.8600 selling, per US$1. October 26. The value of the riyal was adjusted to QR 3.8370 buying, and QR 3.8400 selling, per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Romania is the Roman ian Leu. The official rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Romania is lei 4.47 per US$1 and the official rate for the ruble is lei 6.67 per rub 1. The Na t ional Bank quotes rates for 15 other currencies defined as "freely convertible,"1 and for the Egyptian pound, the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Israel pound, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. For other currencies of nonsocialist coun- tries, exchange rates are based on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. With minor exceptions, the official exchange rates are used for p lann ing and accounting purposes only. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected w i th trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, non trade exchange transactions w i th coun- tries other than the socialist countries2 (except for Yugoslavia) are carried out at the official rate plus a prem ium of 168.46 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12 per US$1. The purchase or sale of foreign exchange at this rate for private use is subject to a bank charge of 1 per cent. Capital transactions with countries other than the socialist countries are settled at lei 18 per US$1. For individual travel to nonsocialist countries and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as per- sonal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, the rate is lei 24 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist countries, special exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equali- zation system. Excluded f rom this system are imports of consumer goods, machinery, and equipment (includ- ing complex equipment), assemblies and subassemblies, and spare parts for investment projects, the domestic prices of which are determined by converting the foreign price into lei at lei 18 per US$1, to which customs duties are added. For all other imports (basic raw materials and other materials and assemblies, subassemblies, and spare par ts for production) and for all exports, a price equalization system applies. Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) and other socialist countries, other than Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of China are 1 Aus tra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg f rancs, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f ranc s. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Po land, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. settled in transferable rubles at an accounting rate of lei 18 per rub 1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist coun- tries exchange rates are established by special agree- ments; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. An accounting rate of lei 18 per US$1 is used for the payment and repayment of foreign loans taken up or granted by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, other official bodies, and Romanian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial centrals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enterprises. Import and export transactions are subject to authoriza- tions granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of existing trade agree- ments are taken into account. Foreign currency pro- ceeds f rom exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased f rom that bank. Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made under the credit agreement of July 14, 1978, payments being denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the National Bank. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, gold, or other precious metals (except silver); B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by 3 The countries with which bilateral payments arrangements were in force as of December 31, 1978 were Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Ind ia, I ran, Nor th Korea, Lebanon, and Viet Nam. Settlements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. take place th rough the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Furthermore, certain settlements w i th Singapore also take place through special accounts. The pay- ments a r rangement with Cyprus was terminated effective March 1, 1979. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were derived and for payments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authori- zation. Nonresidents may also keep accounts with the Savings and Consignment Bank. In addition, any bank, except for the Investment Bank, may accept from non- resident customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus premium (lei 12 per US$1). The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special pur- poses for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and edu- cation) may be used by the recipients. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long- term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular impor- tance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importer or exporter countries but it does distinguish between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, accord- ing to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authori- zations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types 342 of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual import- ing enterprises as a lump sum, or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral payments arrangements, and in the latter case the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. According to the customs regulations, customs duties on imports are not applied to 121 tariff position and subpositions. Customs duties are temporarily not levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 tar iff positions and subpositions. The customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or the appropriate ministry. F o r, most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. Receipts from transac- tions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12 per US$1. Trav- elers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)4 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their families; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their families; (c) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including jo int ventures) and their families; (e) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations having their head- 4 The acceptable currencies, other than the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Israel pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quarters in Romania; (f) children under 14 years; (g) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cul- tural, technical, and scientific cooperation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (k) Romanian citizens possessing a valid Romanian pass- port who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced the i r, Romanian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in cate- gories (j)-(l). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded with a number of countries pro- viding for automatic authorization of transfers of speci- fied amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establishment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 per ROMANIA cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital, and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The owner- ship by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1978 March 6. The official rate for the leu was changed f rom lei 4.97 per US$1 to lei 4.47 per US$1, and the commercial rate from lei 20 per US$ 1 to lei 18 per US$1. The commercial rate for trade with socialist countries was changed to lei 18 per transferab le ruble. March 6. Residents of Yugoslavia were exempted f rom the obligation to convert a m in imum amount of foreign exchange per day dur ing their stay in Romania. April 1. A free trade zone was established at the port of Sulina on the Black Sea. November 2. The exchange rates for nontrade trans- actions in the currencies of nonsocialist countries other than the United States were adjusted by amounts rang- ing f rom 18 per cent to 26 per cent. December 24. A revised and consolidated Customs Duties Code was approved, to take effect on March 28, 1979. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of RF 92.84 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are RF 91.91 and RF 93.77, respectively, per US$1. For certain other currencies1 that are officially quoted, the daily middle rates are derived from the fixed rate with the dollar and the exchange rate between the dollar and the currency in question two business days earlier, calculated as the cross rate between the dollar value of the SDR in New York and the value of the SDR in the national market of the currency concerned. The average rate for the Burundi franc, which also is officially quoted, is the ratio between the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Kigali and the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Bu jumbu ra. The officially quoted rates for the za'ire and for the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the Uganda shilling are derived f rom the dollar value of the SDR in New York two days earlier and the fixed relationship of these currencies to the SDR. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set 1 per cent below and 1 per cent above the middle rate, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members, but this Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Bu rundi and Zai're are made through special accounts in convertible currency. Any balances on these accounts which are maintained with the National Bank are cleared at the end of each quarter. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which in principle is the currency of the country of origin. Pay- ments from any country may be received in Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. All foreign payments, except in border trade, must be made by bank transfer; for import payments, however, payment by check made out in the name of the creditor is also permitted. Exchange transactions with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. All imports valued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, if payment is required in foreign exchange. No license is required for the import of merchandise valued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, when paid for in Rwanda francs. Imports of household and personal effects of nonresidents and resident expatriates are also exempt. The National Bank levies a fee of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value for the validation of import licenses. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. The approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months. Licenses are examined at the National Bank to avoid overinvoic- ing. Any importer applying for a license must do so in wr i t ing, and confirm that when paying for the imports he will not overrun the normal regulation credit allow- ance. Prior to June 30 of each year, all importers must provide the foreign exchange authorities with (1) balance sheets and income statements for the past three years, and (2) a declaration of the amount of taxes paid during each of these years, with supporting documents. Import- ing car dealers must be registered as such by the National Bank. Imports of medium-sized and large cars, but not of small cars or four-wheel drive vehicles, require a 100 per cent deposit in Rwanda francs. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of pay- ment or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that payments are made to the supplier or shipper. All imports are inspected for quality and quantity in the country of origin prior to shipment and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles 1 Belgian f r an c s, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French f ranc s, Japanese yen, N e th e r l ands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, and Swiss f ranc s. The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) con- nected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages —after income tax and social security contributions and after deduction of 40 per cent of net income or RF 35,000 a month, whichever is higher —of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; and for transfers of the net earned income of fore ign nationals who are self-employed or engaged in a pro- fession or established as independent traders. A fee of RF 350 is levied for a transfer authorization. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (unless a documentary credit has been opened). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, w i th the Societe Nationale d'Assurance (SONARWA). Net profits and dividends due to nonresi- dents may in principle be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the Na t ional Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents and resident expatriates may not transfer their net income from rents, except after the sale of the real estate. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes declared upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, personal and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certifi- cation, when a fee of RF 350 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted RWANDA by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, pay- ment must be collected not later than 30 days a f ter the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for minerals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days f rom their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services per- formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may br ing in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guarantees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central bank) for the dobra against the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies with respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Db 34.3814 and Db 35.2517, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank and all exchange payments must be made through the National Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Office of Economics of the Ministry of Economic Coordination. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign transactions shall be made. There are bilateral payments agreements with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are valid for four months but, if necessary, this term can be extended on an ad hoc basis. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported. It also specifies the currency of settlement. Licenses granted have to be presented to the National Bank within 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Imports of some products, such as beans, corn and corn flour, edible oils, meat, milk, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat, are a state monopoly and are imported exclusively by the Commercialization Fund. Licenses are granted in the following order of priority: (1) medicines, basic foodstuffs, fertilizers, and insecti- cides; (2) spare parts for machinery and equipment and raw materials for industry; (3) toiletries; and (4) other. Prepayment of imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Import payments in con- vertible currencies are subject to certain charges—a 346 commission of 1.625 per cent, cable costs, a processing fee (taxa de expediente) for opening a letter of credit, interest at a rate of 6.5 per cent, and a processing fee of Db 1,000 for settlement of the letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved according to limitations established by the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although airplane tickets may be bought with domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign com- panies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been temporarily suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payment of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be established. Foreign exchange allowances for travel on business of national interest are granted up to a maximum of Db 1,000 for each day of travel, Db 15,000 a trip, and Db 50,000 a year. However, these limits can be exceeded if there is adequate justification. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 30,000 in the first month and Db 15,000 in each of the ensuing two months, if adequate justification is provided. Further transfers are decided on an ad hoc basis. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted if such payments began at least one year before permanent residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. Remittances to close relatives are permitted up to an annual maximum of Db 5,500 for each relative living abroad or up to 40 per cent of the income of the person making the remittance, whichever is lower. For remit- tances to relatives studying abroad (at a high school or a university), the following annual limits apply: Db 3,500 for persons 15 years of age or younger; Db 4,000 between the ages of 15 and 21; and Db 6,500 for persons over 21. At the beginning of the school year a student may also receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a 2 per cent stamp tax. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 per cent. Foreign travelers may take out the amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, which specifies the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. Although the Directorate of Commer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cialization, a state institution, is responsible for the great majority of exports, and most exports are produced in the nationalized sector of the economy, exports are not a state monopoly. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of exchange. foreign Capital Amortization payments are permitted if the existence of the debt can be established and if the debt was assumed at least one year before the debtor took up residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Such payments are also permitted if they relate to activities considered to be of national interest. When leaving the country, emigrants may take with SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE them up to Db 20,000 a person and Db 30,000 a family. Thereafter, transfers are granted within the following maximum monthly limits: Db 15,000 a person, Db 20,000 a couple, and Db 25,000 a family. However, these transfers must not exceed 40 per cent of the income earned and verified during the period of stay in Sao Tome and Principe; any amounts in excess of two months' transfers that are still unremitted must be deposited with the National Bank. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authoriza- tion by the National Bank. Changes during 1978 February 15. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with the German Democratic Republic. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. Saudi Arabia at present applies margins not exceeding 7.25 per cent around that fixed relationship. The middle rate of the Saudi Arab ian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1978 the Saudi Arab ian Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.295; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.30 per US$1 and bought f rom banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SR ls 3.29 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 per cent above and below the Monetary Agency's buy ing and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Saudi Arabia fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica and the re-export of certain imported items benef i t ing f rom government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, inc lud ing private persons, may free ly and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and w i thout payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Changes during 1978 January 3. During the three-month period ended April 5, the middle rate of the riyal against the U.S. dol- lar was adjusted on four occasions; cumulatively the rate moved f rom SRls 3.485 = US$1 to SRls 3.445 = US$1. July 7. Du r ing the period Ju ly 12-October 30 (both dates inc lus ive ), the middle rate of the riyal against the U.S. dollar was adjusted on eleven occasions; cumula- tively the rate moved f rom SRls 3.445 = US$1 to SRls 3.245 = US$1. October 11. Imports of goods manu fac tu red domes- tically, inc lud ing construction material and a lum inum products, were made subject to a 20 per cent customs duty. November 5. During the period November 5-21 (both dates inc lus ive ), the middle rate of the riyal against the U.S. dollar was depreciated on three occasions; cumu- latively the rate moved f rom SRls 3.245 = US$1 to SRls 3.365 = US$1. December 12. During the period December 12-31 (both dates inc lus ive ), the middle rate of the riyal against the U.S. dollar was adjusted on four occasions; cumu la t ive ly the rate moved f rom SRls 3.365 = US$1 to SRls 3.295 = US$1. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f r a nc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in is try of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs (Directorate of Foreign Trade), including those for gold. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA 1 The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or f rom The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non- resident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign cor- respondent; such banknotes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an author- ized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized inter- mediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain goods is prohibited f rom all countries except member states of the West Afr ican Economic Com- mun i ty. The import f rom any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports f rom countries in the former French Franc Area are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Imports of virtually all goods f rom EEC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the fo rmer Organization for European Economic Coop- eration (OEEC), the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the former French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegal border or c.i.f.). The import licenses or import certifi- cates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade t ransac t ion has been approved or does not require authorization. Author- ized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- t ions Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- t ion equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten); any fore ign exchange rema in ing af ter re turn to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the fu ll .net salary of a foreigner work ing in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period; how- ever, for Maur i tan ian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cen t, depending on fam i ly status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are transferab le in fu l l. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, bu t, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as travelers checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of foreign banknotes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 350 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny fish), exports to countries in the former French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. When received in a currency other than that of a country of the former French Franc Area, they must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one mon th a f ter collection. All export transactions exceed- ing CFAF 150,000 must be domiciled with an author- ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the fo rmer French Franc Area; residents br ing ing in foreign bankno tes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are identical ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, mem- ber countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs.3 Foreign direct investments in Sene- gal4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economic A f f a i rs before such investments are made. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request post- ponement of the project. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ing of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the M in is ter and the BCEAO within 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lend ing abroad requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, which are sub ject to prior declaration, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment requ ires the special au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs if the loan itself was sub ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. The Inves tment Code provides various fac i l i t ies and benefits for approved fore ign inves tmen ts in Senegal. There are special fac i l i t ies for export indus tr ies estab- lished in the indus t r ial free trade zone. 3 In c lud ing inve s tmen ts made t h r o u gh fo r e ign compan ies that a re d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compan ies in Senegal. 4 In c lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Senegal of fore ign companies. SENEGAL Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor qu an t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization and imports of ornaments requ i re the prior advice of the Senegal Corporation for the Promotion of Art Hand icraf ts (Societe Senegalais pour la Promotion de 1'Artisanat d'Art) and the Direc- tora te of Mines and Geology. Changes during 1978 March 1. A new investment code, which replaced that of 1972, covered new sectors, such as forestry, m in ing, commerce, telecommunications, and maritime, a ir, and railway transportation. The new code withdrew the exemption f rom the business profit tax granted for approved investments under the previous code, but con t inued to permit deductions of reinvested profits f rom taxab le income. March 8. Decree No. 78-200 provided that imports of textiles would henceforth require a license, irrespec- t ive of the coun try of their origin. Such licenses were to be issued by the M in is try of Commerce, following con su l ta t ion with a Commission dealing with textile imports. September 4. Changes in import taxes were intro- duced. Duties on fresh and canned fru i ts and vegetables, canned fish, and wooden fu rn i tu re were raised as were s tanda rd taxes on alcoholic beverages and shoes, and specific taxes on petroleum products. Imports of phar- maceutical products were exempted f rom all import taxes. September 26. As a result of the admission of the Cen tral Bank of Gu inea to the West A f r ican Clearing House, exchange operations between Senegal and Guinea were to be effected through the Clearing House. The b i la te ral paymen ts arrangement was term ina ted. October 14. The import of used automobiles was prohibited. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the intervention currency, at Sey Rs 1 = <£ stg. 0.075. The official buying and selling rate for the pound sterling is Sey Rs 13.3333 per <£ stg. 1. The Seychelles Monetary Authority charges a commission of 0.125 per cent for either buy ing or selling of pounds sterling. The com- mercial banks fix their rates for the pound sterling on the basis of the official buying and selling rates. Buying and selling rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are determined by the commercial banks on the basis of London market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Seychelles fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom J anu a ry 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control and there are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported f rom Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are concerned. With these exceptions, most goods may be imported freely from any source under open general license. Payments for such transactions may be effected without the completion of application forms. A limited number of imports require a specific license and the import of a few items is prohibited. Most imports are subject to duties, with a preferential schedule of rates applied to goods or ig ina t ing in Com- monwea l th and EEC countries. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. No l im i ts are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses but certain exports are subject to duties. Residents may export goods without exchange control formality to any coun- try, except Rhodesia and South Africa. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Disposal of foreign currency proceeds, whatever the origin, is free. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital payments. Outward t rans fe rs of overseas-owned capital are allowed w i thout limit. Whether or not they have been granted temporary residential status, non- nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earn- ings without limit. New investment outside Seychelles by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct invest- ment, increased investment in existing entities in the fo rm of loans, or equity capital) is free. Gold Residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Two issues of com- memorative gold coins in denominations of Sey Rs 1,500 and SeyRs 1,000 are legal tender. Changes during 1978 January 4. Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act increased or introduced import duties on most fresh and preserved meats. Duties on ornamental items, luxu ry goods, and imitation jewelry were raised f rom 37 per cent to 100 per cent, regardless of source. December 1. The Seychelles Monetary Authority, replacing the Commissioners of Currency, was estab- lished and commenced operations. The Monetary Au thor i ty was vested with most of the powers and func t ions of a central bank including the administration of local bank ing legislation. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of Le 1 = SDR 0.731566. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals only in sterling, the intervention currency, and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the daily rate between the leone and the pound sterling determined on the basis of the SDR-pound sterling rate, subject to a max imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on current London market rates. On December 31, 1978 the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.97 and US$0.95, respec- tively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day adm in is tra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are perm i t ted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports f rom other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United King- dom, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Liberia, and Nigeria are normally made through the West Afr i- can Clearing House. Receipts f rom exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia may be obtained in leones f rom an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the importing country, or in any specified currency.1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in the currency of the importing 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. country or in any other specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country, or if there is no such account, through an account in a bank in the importing country nominated by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Settlements with Namibia, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling Area countries2 may ma in ta in Sterling Area Accounts denomi- nated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Namibia, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain goods may be imported under open general license from a wide range of coun- tries. Otherwise, all imports require individual import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Rice Corporation. Authorized banks have limited authority to g rant foreign exchange for import payments; for imports under specific import licenses, the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each individual license, and for imports under open general license the Bank's approval must be obtained where the payment for an individual import item exceeds Le 5,000. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the availability of foreign exchange into account in considering applications. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice entry tax of 4.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. These imports are also subject to a special licensing fee of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for many current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited in principle to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the transfer of larger amounts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone, buying commission is not normally per- mitted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not normally allowed. 2 Sierra Leone's regulations still provide a def in i t ion of the Sterling Area; the def in i t ion includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Africa. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destina- tion, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of pur- chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the exporta- tion of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licences are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all countries except Namibia, Rhodesia, and South Africa. The proceeds of exports, including diamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the import- ing country or any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; they must be received by the exporters and sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within three months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by six locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 per traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission f rom the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ- ated abroad. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis- sion if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to 354 persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking indus- trial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an authorized dealer their holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemption is made for authorized dealers, diplomats, and those exempt sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area (see footnote 2) and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit require- ments. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided exemption^has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export, certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make available to the Govern- ment gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not sub- ject to export tax. Changes during 1978 July 1. The budget proposals for 1978/79 included provisions for extensive changes in customs duties, in conformity with the terms of the Mano River Union with Liberia. Items on which duties were reduced included seeds of anise, badian, fennel, coriander, cumin, caraway, jumper, and ogusie (melon flour) and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE frames and mountings for lenses ( f rom 40 per cent ad valorem to zero); textile articles of silk and man- made fibers (but not cotton textiles) from 50 per cent to 45 per cent; automobiles with a cubic capacity exceed- ing 2,000 but not exceeding 2,500 from 90 per cent to 50 per cent; and automobiles with a cubic capacity in excess of 2,500 from 120 per cent to 50 per cent. There were no changes in the rate of duty on dyes, agricultural tools, building materials, medical equipment, soft drinks, or other food items produced locally. August 28. All goods imported by commercial importers, except those specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, became subject to a licensing fee of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. November 2. The exchange rate for the leone was pegged to the SDR at a rate of Le 1 = SDR 0.731566. Since 1972, the leone had been pegged to the pound sterling. The pound sterling continued to be the inter- vention currency. This adjustment also involved a devaluation of 5 per cent in the value of the leone. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The value of the Singapore dollar is determined on the basis of its fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies representing Singapore's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were S$2.1630 and S$2.1640, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currencies. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities1 but the Mone tary Au thor i ty of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Department of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls; the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports is empowered to approve imports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments V i r tua l ly all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All impor ts or ig ina t ing in Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, or any terr i tory administered by either are proh ib i ted. Import licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding bran), refined sugar, and chlorine, irrespective of origin; and (2) all goods o r ig ina t ing in or consigned from A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. 1 Such fo rma l i t ies were e l im ina ted w i th effect f rom June 1, 1978. 356 License applications for goods under (2) must be sub- mitted through an intermediary, Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries (except the People's Republic of China). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments >are freely permitted. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles of Singapore origin to Belgium, Den- mark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ire- land, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are sub ject to quantitative restriction. Exports of ia few other items are restricted irrespective of destination. Other commodities do not require an export license. Export proceeds need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Govern- ment approval is required for investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a resi- den t ial un it w i th in a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential properties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Sin- gapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of the ir senior personnel. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the As ian dollar market, may freely accept deposits, in currencies other than Singapore dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access. Both resi- dent and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. There are two distinct gold markets in Singapore, the physical market and the fu tu r es market. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Sin- gapore or in London, with appropriate price ad jus tmen ts for the cost of t ranspo r ta t ion and insurance. The fu tu r es market started to operate in November 1978. The price of gold used for the m anu f a c tu re of orna- men ts is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchan ts Association. On December 30, 1978 this price was about S$680 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$640 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1978 June 1. Exchange control was abolished and no formalities or approvals were required henceforth for all forms of payment. The main consequences were ( 1) all companies and individuals could freely deal in fore ign currencies, spot and forward; (2) banks could SINGAPORE deal freely in the foreign exchange market, being required only to submit monthly returns of their opera- tions; (3) merchant banks and offshore banks also could deal freely in the foreign exchange market and could deal with nonbank customers; (4) proceeds f rom exports were no longer subject to repatriation requirements; (5) inves tment could be made freely without limit in any currency; (6) fore ign currencies could be retained in any amount; (7) Singapore institutions and individuals would no longer require approval to borrow or to lend in foreign currencies; (8) finance companies, however, wou ld not be perm i t ted to deal in foreign exchange because of the provisions of the Finance Companies Act; and (9) restrictions were l i f t ed f rom resident transactions in Asian Currency Units except that Asian Currency Un i ts m ight not accept deposits in Singapore dollars. June 14. It was announced that with effect f rom Ju ly 1 offshore banks would be allowed to offer credit and other facilities, such as current accounts, overdrafts, trust receipts, and letters of credit to Singapore residents w i thout the need to extend a qua l i fy ing term loan. A l im it of S$30 million was set for each offshore bank on the total of credit facilities extended to Singapore residents. Offshore banks were precluded f rom accepting fixed and other interest-bearing deposits denominated in Singapore dollars f rom Singapore residents. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS1 (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, issued by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. The Solomon Islands dollar is pegged to the Australian dollar, the intervention currency, at SI$1 = $A 1. The buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar are $A 1.0005 and $A 0.9995, respec- tively, per SI$1. There are no official quotations for other foreign currencies. Exchange transactions by commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are based upon quotations received f rom commercial banks in Aus tra l ia. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Solomon Islands Monetary Au thor i ty by means of the Exchange Control Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Monetary Authority delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside the Solomon Islands, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign cur- rency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars f rom an account with a bank domiciled outside the country. Nonresident Accounts The Monetary Authority permits nonresidents upon request to open nonresident accounts with authorized dealers, and balances on such accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Approval is required for the credit- ing of these accounts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except for goods imported from Rhodesia. Authorized dealers have powers to approve the great majority of transactions without reference to the Monetary Authority. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from companies in the Solomon Islands. Permanent residents2 are permitted to 1 The Solomon Islands became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund on September 22, 1978. 358 purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles, if supporting documents are provided. Trans- fers by postal order to persons permanently residing outside the Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Monetary Authority. Travelers may not take out Solo- mon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, without the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control fo rma l i ty (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Monetary Authority. The essential conditions of this General Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export, that the export price of the goods is not less than may reasonably have been expected, and that the pro- ceeds are sold to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Monetary Authority for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed either for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign cur- rency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting the Solo- mon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of capital are allowed without limit. Persons who have been granted temporary residential status by an authorized dealer or the Monetary Author- 2 All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Monetary Au tho r i ty. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a citizen of a foreign country who intends to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than f o ur years or has resided in the Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent resi- dence overseas in the near fu tu re. Ownership of real property or a business indicates permanent residential status, regardless of the dura- tion of residence in the Solomon Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ity are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted where it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. Where an investment is for portfolio purposes, the approval of the Monetary Authority is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Approval for the acquisition of certain types of securities that are not available in the Solomon Islands is usually granted. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Monetary Authority is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Monetary Authority before it may borrow funds SOLOMON ISLANDS f rom a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign invest- ment is involved, applicants are also referred to the Commercial Investment Committee in the Ministry of Trade, Indus try, and Labour. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other resi- dents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Na tu ral Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Monetary Authority is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold, but has not yet undertaken any transactions in gold. Changes during 1978 February 21. A new customs tariff came into effect. October 1. The legal tender status of the Australian dollar was withdrawn. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate ^ystem The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, respectively, per US$1, unchanged since 1973. The Central Bank of Somalia also carries out exchange transactions in certain specified currencies,1 tak ing into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange com- mission (including bank ing commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct fo rwa rd exchange transac- tions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The M in is try of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned w i th the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to de term ine the rates at which fore ign currencies are to be nego t ia ted, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,2 and to appoint author- ized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also imp lement the t rade and exchange controls on behalf of the M in is t ry c» Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, rep resen t ing various minis- tries, the Central Bank, the Cus toms Au thor i ty, and the police, advises the M in is t ry of Commerce on policy ques- t ions re la t ing to the regu la t ion and control of fo re ign economic t ransac t ions. The N a t ion al and Local Licensing Committees, represen t ing the M in i s t ry of Commerce, the M in is t ry of Finance, the Cen tral Bank, the Customs Au tho r i ty, and the police, decide on applications for l icenses for impor ts and exports and for t rans fe rs in respect of services. The Cen tral Bank gran ts licenses for cer ta in rou t ine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the Na t ional Licensing Committee unless they are governed by the prov is ions of the Foreign Inve s tment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denom ina ted in pounds sterling. Settlements w i th all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in 1 Deu tsche m a r k, D j i b o u ti f r an c s, French f r a n c s, I ta l ian l i re, K uw a i ti d ina r s, pounds s te r l ing, Saudi A rab ian r iya ls, Swiss f ranc s, and U.A.E. d i rham s. 360 "convertible" currencies;2 however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospecting or consultancy services. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import of a few commodities f rom all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons.3 Individual licenses are required for all other commodities. Some of these commodities may be imported only f rom specified sources.4 Certain other commodities are liberalized when originating in EEC countries. State agencies are responsible for all commodity imports. The state trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC ), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fa ts, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, cement, and certain other commodities; some commodities are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton c lo th). The Somali- Petroleum Agency and the Na t ional Petroleum Agency are the only impor ters of fuel and fuel products, bat- teries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related ma te r ia ls. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency en t i t led to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of cons truc t ion ma ter ia ls other than cement. If goods imported d i f fer in weight, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 10 per cent. 2 The "convertible" currenc ies are listed as deutsche ma rk, Djibouti f ranc s, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Bu t te r, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made cloth- ing, tex t i les and related ma ter ia ls, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 4 The perm i t ted origin varies f rom commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply generally are Egypt or the U.S.S.R. Made- up articles and related products may be imported only when originating in A f r i c an or A rab countries, member countries of the EEC, People's Republic of Ch ina, Ge rman Democratic Republic, North Korea, or U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the au thor ized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documen ta t ion re la t ing to the import transaction (b i l ls, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc .). Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transac- tion meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day fo l low ing the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Cen tral Bank or the au thor ized exchange dealer may also permit advance paymen ts for imports (i .e ., payment for merchand ise that has not actually passed through customs at the time of p aym en t) provided that documen ta ry evidence of actual sh ipment is produced. Advance paymen ts for impor ts w i thout documen ta ry evidence of actual ship- ment are not permitted. Paymen ts for impor ts f rom ne ighbo r ing a reas5 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Payments for cu r rent invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unau tho r ized cap i tal move- ments; provided that balance of paymen ts considerations perm i t, genuine requirements are met. T rans fe rs of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are no rma l ly allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 4,000 a person. For tour ist travel by residents, there is an allowance equ iva lent to So. Sh. 1,000 a per- son a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on the ir merits by the Licensing Comm i t tees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out w i thout authoriza- tion any fo re ign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin. Resident travelers may take out w i thout au thor iza t ion So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in fore ign banknotes and coin. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all 5 Aden, D j ibou t i, Mukawwar Island, Ethiopia, and Kenya. SOMALIA o ther commodities. Bananas are exported only by the B an ana Ma rke t ing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the expor ta t ion of incense, my r rh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repa tr ia ted, declared, and o f fe red for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer w i th in five business days a f ter their receipt. The Cen tral Bank may exempt exporters f rom the su r render obligation in respect of their export pro- ceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance pay- ment deposit of 15 per cent of the va lue of exports is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the au thor ized dealer w i th in five business days a f ter their rece ip t. The Central Bank may grant exemptions f rom the su r render requ iremen t. Nonres iden ts may b r ing in freely with them any amount in fore ign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bankno tes and coin; they must make a currency dec lara t ion when entering the coun try. Resident trav- elers may b r ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coin and are obliged, upon arr iva l, to declare and o f fer to surrender any fore ign exchange or gold they br ing in. Capital Paymen ts to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended. In accordance with the provisions of that law, fore ign enterprises must be regis- tered w i th the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises, profits may be transferred abroad f ree ly up to a limit of 30 per cent per annum of the cap i tal invested; the unused portion of this t rans fer right is cumu la t ive for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 per cent, the t rans fer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be t rans fe r red abroad beginning five years a f ter the date of registration. Profits resulting f rom other fore ign investments may be transferred abroad up to a l im it of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years af ter the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption f rom import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding five years. For investments regis- tered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or a f ter March 1968 mus t, to the largest possible extent, 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA employ residents and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resident employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 karats w i th in one month. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EEC countries and imports f rom elsewhere are subject to a 10 per cent duty. Changes during 1978 July 19. An inoperative bilateral payments agreement with Egypt was formally terminated. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, at R 1 = US$1.1500. On December 29, 1978 the official buying and selling rates were US$1.1529 and US$1.1471, respectively, per R 1. Exchange rates for all other currencies are based on the rates of the South African Reserve Bank for the U.S. dollar against the rand and London market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. On December 29, 1978 the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$1.1529 buying, and US$1.1471 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover for private sector trans- actions in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers at a charge of 1 per cent per annum, for import and export transactions and for foreign loans raised in their own names.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. There is also a market in which securities rand (arising from the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in South A f r ica owned by nonresidents other than former residents of South A f r ica) may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually incurring a discount on the official market rate; at the end of 1978 that discount was about 44 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 29 being R 1 = US$0.65.2 South Afr ica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v ir tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and 1 On J a n u a ry 24, 1979 the South A f r i c an au tho r i t ies announced the beg inn ing of a g radual and systematic change in the exchange system aimed at the "managed f lo a t ing of an independent rand ." Official buy ing and selling ra tes for the U.S. dollar would con t inue to be quo ted but it was the in ten t ion of the au tho r i t ies to change these ra tes f r om time to t ime depend ing on m a rk et developments. Au tho r ized fo re ign exchange dealers wou ld be allowed to make exchange t ran sac t ions on the ir own account and m a i n t a in open positions in fore ign exchange w i t h in speci- fied l im i ts. The Reserve Bank would no longer quo te a fixed charge for bo th impo r te rs and expo r te rs for f o rw a rd cover, but wou ld quo te a m idd le price for fo rw a rd dollars of specified m a t u r i t i e s. On J a n u a ry 29, 1979 the m idd le ra te for spot rand was set at R 1 = US$1.1500 and for one-year fo rwa rd dollars it was set at R 1 = US$1.1730. - As pa rt of the measures announced on J a n u a ry 24, 1979, the securi- t ies r and was replaced by a " f inanc ial rand ." The exchange ra te of the financial rand wou ld float free ly. The financial r and, on application and approva l, wou ld be available to nonresidents for the purchase of a w ider variety of financial assets than was the case w i th the securities rand and for direct investments. Transkei, and these are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treas- ury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its licensing power to the authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area con- s t i tu te the Nonresident Area. Settlements within the Rand Monetary Area take place in rand only.3 Settle- ments by residents of the Rand Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area, except Botswana and Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and from a Nonresident Account and in any specified currency4 and, for outgoing pay- ments only, in any other foreign currency.5 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Botswana Account, in Botswana currency, in rand from a local Nonresident Account to a Botswana Account ( for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand from a local Nonresident Account ( for inward payments only), or in any specified currency (for inward payments only). Settlements with Rhodesia may be made in rand to and from a local Rhodesian account in Rhodesian currency, in rand from a local nonresident account (for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand from a local nonresident account ( for inward payments on ly ), or in any specified currency ( for inward payments on ly). Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Monetary Area are divided into Botswana 3 L i langeni bankno tes issued by Swaziland are free ly convertible into r and, at pa r, w i thout res t r ic t ion at the Mone ta ry Au tho r i ty of Swazi- l and, but th ey are not legal tender in South A f r i c a. Checks and other bills of exchange d rawn by Swazi residents for payment in South Africa and Lesotho must be denom ina ted in rand. 4 Au s t r a l i an dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canadian do l lars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong do l lars, Ind i an rupees, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Kenya sh i l l ing s, Malagasy f ranc s, Ma lawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, New Z e a l and dollars, Norweg ian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds s te r l ing, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, za'ires, and Zamb ian kwacha. r> Foreign cu f rency is any currency other than currency that is legal tender in a coun try in the Rand Monetary Area. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, Securities Rand Accounts (see footnote 2 ), and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Botswana currency and of any specified cur- rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited tor payments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South African residents, for pay- ments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Rhodesian currency and of any specified currency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Rhodesia, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all author- ized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South African residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any pur- pose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Rhodesian Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of pur- chases of any foreign currency; and for paymen ts to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Securities Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emi- grants from that Area, to which exchange control restric- tions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa, owned by nonresidents, excluding former residents of South Africa, and by immigrants within three years of arrival. 364 Johannesburg Stock Exchange dealers are permitted to quote prices for securities rand and its members are permitted to buy and sell securities rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer securities rand balances from one Securities Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad); to acquire central govern- ment, municipal, or public utility stock, or to subscribe to seven-year, 6 per cent, Securities Rand Bonds, which are nontransferable and nonnegotiable, but are redeem- able in foreign currency. Also, proceeds from out- standing holdings of five-year nonresident bonds, previously issued by the Treasury, can be remitted abroad upon maturity. The local sale proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Securities Rand Accounts, with the exception of assets of persons who have been South Afr ican residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with that part of an emigrant's assets which exceeds the amount that is transferable on departure. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within cer- tain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or be invested in any securities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Blocked rand may also be used, within a limit of R 30,000 for each emigrant family un i t, or R 10,000 for an individual, to subscribe to the special issue of seven-year nonresident bonds. Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com- modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1979 distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: (1) Goods that may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 524 tariff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 25 per cent of 1978 imports. (2) Goods that may be imported only under permit but subject to automatic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licensing for bona fide merchants and manufac turers. These fall under an unspecified number of tar iff head- ings or subheadings and correspond on a value basis to 66.3 per cent of 1978 imports. (3) Goods that may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined from time to time. These account for about 5.3 per cent in value of 1978 imports. (4) Goods that may be imported only under permit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods are issued. Generally these are issued when the imported goods are not ava i lab le in South A f r i c a. They cover some 3.4 per cent of 1978 imports. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importa- t ion ), and an import permit where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except for certain capital goods, and provided that the terms are customary in the t rade concerned. There is an import surcharge of 12 per cent on the value of all imports except those subject to a GATT binding and other agreements to which South Afr ica is a party. Imports, with certain exceptions, are also sub- ject to a 4 per cent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to ap- prove certain current invisible payments without limita- tion and others up to established limits. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, prof i ts, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Depart- ment of Industries and the Reserve Bank, and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1974 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable con- sideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securi- ties acquired with blocked funds or securities rand, or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable at the official market rate of exchange to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 500 for an adult (R 200 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Zaire, and Zambia. In addition SOUTH AFRICA to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 100 a day, with a maximum of R 3,000 in a calendar year. The applicable allowance for busi- ness trips to the neighboring territories mentioned above is R 500 a year. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take out not more than the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 50 but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained f rom the disposal of instru- men ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r ica. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers re turn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swazi- land, and Transkei. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Bophuthatswana, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transke i). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth coun- try, any British colony, protectorate, or trust terri- tory, and the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, other than Botswana, is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months f rom the date of shipment and /or seven days f rom the date of accrual. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 50 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic cur- rency from Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Capital' All inward loan transfers require specific approval,7 while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be sur- rendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed; transfers to Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swazi- land, and Transkei do not require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by resi- dents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, sub- ject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring coun- tries (excluding Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei) funds for bona fide long-term invest- ment in specific development projects or for the expan- sion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants (excluding former South African residents) may dispose of their foreign assets (including foreign cash funds) held outside the Rand Monetary Area or otherwise invest them (including by purchase of South African securities abroad). The proceeds from the sale of all South Afr ican securities brought in by immigrants must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts; there are no restrictions on the free use of such funds locally for the first three years of the immigrant's residence on amounts up to R 20,000 or, subject to Reserve Bank ap- proval, on additional amounts, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South Afr ican securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by 6 For exchange control purposes, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Monetary Area. Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, gove rnmen t, mun ic ipa l, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds a n d / or par- ticipations in mortgage bonds, and national savings cer t if ica tes. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any tempo ra ry or sub- stitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certifi- cates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 7 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad w i th a m a tu r i ty of at least six months by domestic en trepreneurs, except for property development, speculation, or consumer credit. Au tho r ized dealers gen- erally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. 366 the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on maturity of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except national savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) prior to March 20, 1978 and held continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South Africa by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of securities rand balances; and transfers of up to R 2,000 to a non- resident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa where the total inheritance does not exceed R 2,000. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may transfer R 10,000 outside South Africa as a settling-in allowance, and those with larger assets may transfer 50 per cent of the total, up to R 30,000 for families or R 10,000 for individuals; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account, and the value of any foreign assets is deducted from the applicable settling-in allowance. Emigrants may, however, utilize such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a family unit, or R 10,000 for individuals, to subscribe to seven- year nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The free transfer of income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets and /or a South African Trust is limited to a maximum of R 100,000 for a family unit a year. An emigrant family or a person can export only one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 10,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. The Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at ma tur i ty to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of nonresident-owned securi- ties is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. There are normally four ways in which holders of securities rand can repatriate funds from South Africa: ( 1) by taking up special seven-year Securities Rand Bonds issued by the Government; (2) by redeeming at maturity five-year nonresident bonds previously issued by the Treasury, certain government, municipal, and pub- lic utility bonds and national savings certificates which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution were purchased before March 30, 1978 (except national savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974) and held for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; ( 3) by exporting South Afr ican shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them outside South Africa at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation; and (4) by sell- ing the funds to another nonresident for foreign currency. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's r e t u r n) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zamb ia ), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manu fac tu red fo rm and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Fur thermore, authorized dealers may, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, allow residents to export for sale to num isma t is ts currency coins, inc lud ing gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant dur ing a calendar year. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of production. As a special concession mines may retain some of the pro- duction for the purpose of m in t ing gold coins. The M int f rom time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand without a face value, that are legal tender but do not circulate in South A f r ica; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bu lk is sold abroad. Changes during 1978 March 30. The regulations concerning securities rand were changed so that in order to redeem securities rand in fore ign currency, a nonres ident would be able to subscr ibe to new Securities Rand Bonds. These bonds wou ld have a redemption period of seven years, would be nontransferable, and would have a 6 per cent coupon. Previously, a va r ie ty of stocks and bonds, w i th ma tu r i- ties of five years or more, could be purchased with securities rand. Nonresidents would still be able to use securities rand to subscribe to and invest in government, SOUTH AFRICA municipal, and public utility stocks, but the redemption proceeds at maturity would no longer be convertible into foreign currency. The redemption proceeds of gov- ernment, municipal, and public utility stocks which were acquired by a nonresident (excluding emigrants) prior to March 30, 1978 and continuously registered in his name for at least five years to maturity would be transferable. April 1. The import surcharge was reduced from 15 per cent to 12 per cent. April 10. South Africa revalued its gold reserves to US$163.26 an ounce f rom US$42.22 an ounce. Gold reserves would be revalued at the end of each calendar month to a level equal to 10 per cent below the average of the preceding ten gold bullion fixings in London. April 10. The Reserve Bank changed its gold pur- chasing policy and announced that it would buy gold f rom the mines at current market rates according to an agreed fo rmu la. Previously, the Reserve Bank had bought gold at the official price and had then paid the mines a p rem ium on gold that had been sold on their behalf. May 18. A second allocation of import permits was made equal to 40 per cent of the value of imports in 1977. July 3. A general sales tax at a flat rate of 4 per cent was levied on virtually all goods and services at the po int of final sale. Imports exempted were goods imported by a "registered vendor" for resale in the ordinary course of his business (the tax would become payable when the items were eventually sold to the final u s e r ); goods imported by a registered vendor for consumption in a manu fac tu r ing process, i.e., raw materials and fuel (capital goods were not exempt); impor ted goods on which no customs duty was payable; goods re-exported to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land; goods imported under a multilateral international agreement; and imports of strategic materials. The tax replaced existing sales duties. August 3. The Protection of Business Act was pro- mu lga ted, fo rb idd ing companies transacting business in South A f r ica f rom obeying any order or judgment emana t ing outside South Africa concerning aspects of the company's business within the country, without prior permission of the Minister of Economic Affairs. This Act is an extension of the Second General Law Amendment Act of 1974, which allowed the South A f r ican Government some control over the disclosure of informa t ion required f rom South A f r ican companies by other governments. October 23. A third allocation of import permits was made equal to 30 per cent of the total value issued in 1977 for consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages. As a result, the total allocation for 1978 amoun t ed to 110 per cent of the 1977 value. November 23. The fac i l i ty whereby a Krugerrand coin could be exported in lieu of a monetary gift was canceled. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluc- tuations in exchange rates so as to ma in ta in stability in the exchange market. Official buying and selling rates for specified currencies1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain ( the central b a n k ), acting in consultation with the authorized banks. On December 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were Ptas 69.980 and Ptas 70.240, respectively, per US$ 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles direct trans- actions. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buy ing and selling rates for bankno tes in specified fore ign currencies. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions related to commercial operations for up to 360 days; forward trans- actions with customers are restricted to currencies adm i t ted to the Madr id fore ign exchange market and to permitted import and export transactions with a ma tur i ty up to 180 days. The fo rwa rd peseta position of an ind iv idu al bank must not reflect a net buy ing or selling ba lance at the close of each day. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The gu ide l ines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an in term in is ter ial commission. The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism is in charge of administrative func t ions connected w i th exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operations, in particular, the hand l ing of external reserves. It is also responsible for the au tho r iza t ion of fo re ign currency loans to residents for non t r ade purposes. Trade controls are administered by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. The M in is try also is in charge of the controls over Spanish 1 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, Finnish m a r k k a a, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 368 investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the registration of foreign investments in Spain. Contracts relating to technological matters must be registered with the Ministry of Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but they are usually made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, including Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Payments in Spain (A Accoun t s ), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accoun ts), External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, Bank Accounts in Pesetas with Andorra, Em igran ts' Accounts, and Tourists' Accounts in Internal Pesetas. A Accounts may be freely credited with (1) the countervalue in pesetas of convertible currencies sold on the foreign exchange market; (2) amounts trans- ferred f rom other A Accounts; (3) amounts transferred f rom B Accounts; and (4) any interest payable on the account. These accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) any payment in pesetas in favor of Spanish juridical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain (including payments relating to foreign investment in Spa in); and (2) transfers to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign cur- rency for rem i t tance abroad are not permitted. B Accounts may be freely credited with ( 1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under existing rules are transferab le abroad under powers delegated to authorized banks; (2) amounts transferred f rom other B Accounts; and (3) any interest payable on the account. The crediting of amounts originating f rom A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) the countervalue in pesetas of foreign currency acquired on the foreign exchange market; (2) any payments in pesetas in favor of Spanish juri- dical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain, inc lud ing those relating to fore ign investment in Spain; (3) transfers to other B Accounts; and (4) t rans fe rs to A Accounts. All other transactions on A or B Accounts require the prior au thor iza t ion of the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. 2 Colombia and Equatorial Guinea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold non re s iden t s' f u n ds acc ru ing in Spain that are not t r an s f e r ab le abroad. Au tom a t ic approval is given to open such accoun ts. Balances are f ree ly negotiable between non re s iden ts ho ld ing such accounts. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th ( 1) the f u ll pro- ceeds of the sale by a non res ident to a resident of Spanish real estate o r ig ina l ly acquired w i th pesetas f r om an Ex te rnal Account in In te rnal Pesetas; (2) the f u ll proceeds of the sale by a non re s ident to a res ident of Span ish shares and f ixed- in terest secu r i t ies t h at have been acqu i red w i th pesetas f r om an Ex ternal Account in I n t e r n al Pesetas and h ave been he ld for less t h an th ree years consecutively by the same owne r ;3 (3) receipts f r om the N a t i o n al Lo t te ry; (4) any n o n t r a n s f e r a b le am o u n ts a r i s ing f r om t r an s a c t ions in inv i s ib l es or cap i tal movemen ts a c c r u i ng to the account ho lde r; (5) in te rest received on ba lances held in these accoun ts; and (6) t ran s fe rs f r om any o ther Ex t e rn al Accoun ts in In te rnal Pesetas. They may be deb i ted f ree ly for ( 1) paymen ts of any am o u nt of personal expenses in Spa in of the account ho lder and h is close re la t ives (manage r 's personal expenses if the account is opened in the n ame of a j u r i d i c al p e r s o n ); (2) the purchase of shares quo ted on the stock exchange and of Spanish f ixed - in te rest secu r i t ies; ( 3) the pu rcha se for the use of the account ho lder (p rov ided that the a c count ho lder is a non r e s id ent phys ical pe rson) of u r b an and ru r al proper- t ies that do not represent inv e s tm ent for comme rc ia l, i n d u s t r i a l, or a g r i c u l t u r al purposes ( a p p l i c a b le to ru ral proper t ies on ly if the account ho lder is of Span ish na t ion- a l i t y ); (4) the purchase of N a t ion al Lottery tickets; and "(5) t r an s f e rs to any o ther Ex te rnal Accoun ts in In te rnal Pesetas. A ll other en t r i es on these accoun ts r e q u i re prior au tho r i z a t ion. The accounts may not be ove rd rawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Cur- rencies may be held by non r e s id en t s; re s ident fo re ign na t iona ls may m a i n t a in such accoun ts on ly if opened be fo re J a n u a ry 1, 1968, in o rder to m a i n t a in acqu ired rights. The deposits may be either sight or t ime. The accounts may be cred i ted w i th conve r t ib le currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange ma rket and with any amount of interest. They may be deb i ted f ree ly for reconversion into the currency in i t ia l ly deposited, for the purchase of other conver t ib le cu r renc ies quoted in the Spanish exchange ma rke t, and for conversion into pesetas, inc lud ing the t r an s f er to an A Accoun t. Over- drafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of fore ign banks. Emigrants' Accounts—Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been au thor ized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens work ing abroad. 3 The proceeds of such secur i t ies that have been held for at least th ree years consecutively are t r an s f e r ab le abroad. SPAIN Imports and Import Payments A ll im p o r ts f rom Rhodes ia are prohibited. Most im p o r ts a re adm i t t ed u n d er the fo l low ing a r rangemen t s: (1) f r ee impo r ts, (2) global quo tas, (3) state t rad ing, and (4) i n d i v i d u al licensing, also re fe r red to as the "b i la teral import regime." All imports require either an im p o rt l icense or an "import declaration" issued by the D i rec to ra te -Gene ral of Ta r i ff Policy and Imports. Prov ided th at impo rt prices are not considered abno rma l, im p o rt d e c l a r a t ions a re issued f ree ly for a large n um b er of goods (m o s t ly f o o d s t u f fs not under state t rad ing, raw m a t e r i a l s, cap i tal goods, and spare par ts, and also some con sumer goods) inc luded in an impo rt free list that app l ies to most coun tr ies w i th wh ich Spain has no b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts; the f r ee list also app l ies to spec i f ied im p o r ts f r om Iran and Japan .4 A ll other impo r ts r equ i re licenses. There are global quotas for spec if ied impor ts f r om coun t r ies to wh ich the free list app l ies, but licenses are u s u a l ly g r an t ed for larger amoun t s .5 W i th ce r ta in excep- t ion s, the global quo ta reg ime also app l ies to goods of J ap an e se o r ig in. Licenses for impo r ts f rom Bu lg a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, Hung a ry, Po land, R om a n i a, and the U.S.S.R. are issued free ly. Impo r ts of raw cotton, c e r t a in other ag r icu l tu ral products, some raw ma te r ia l s, p e t r o l e um p roduc ts, and tobacco a re s ta te t raded; some goods f o rm a l ly l is ted as be ing sub ject to state t r ad ing, such as f e edg r a in s, may be f r e e ly impo r ted by private t r ad e r s. Impo r ts of ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral produc ts that are f r ee of qu an t i t a t ive res t r ic t ion and previously were s t a te t r ad ed a re sub ject to v a r i ab le impo rt levies. Import sub s id ies are paid on ce r ta in f o o d s t u f fs and specified other essen t ial commod i t ies. Exchange in the appro- p r ia te cu r rency to pay for au tho r ized impo r ts is g ran ted f ree ly. Except for cap i tal goods, suppliers' credit for im p o r ts is not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted to exceed 90 days. All im p o rt t ran sac t ions must be dom ic i led w i th an author- ized b a n k, and the impo rt payment must be made th rough the bank of dom ic i l ia t ion; exempt f r om domi- c i l i a t ion are t ransac t ions valued at less than Ptas 500,000, prov ided that payment is to be made w i th in one year. Payments for Invisibles Some t r an s f e rs abroad and paymen ts by residents in f avor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to ind iv idual au tho r iza t ion, for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments Up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large propor t ion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For cer ta in services, transfers may be made freely up to a pre-established amoun t; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required. 4 The impo rt f ree list does not apply to the paymen ts agreement coun t r ies or to A f g h a n i s t a n, Albania, Ando r ra, Bhu tan, People's Re- pub l ic of China, No r th Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepa l, San Marino, Tibet, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 5 There are separate global quo tas for imports of the same commodi- t i es f r om EEC countries. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies and acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued inter- est, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of sub- scription rights; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting f rom the sale of foreign exchange, or with pesetas released from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also freely transfer- able abroad. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided that the purchase price has been paid in full. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad are restricted to exports and imports of goods. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is Ptas 50,000 a person a journey, but additional amounts are approved freely for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each business trip. For larger amounts, the banks must apply for approval, which is granted liberally. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain (Ptas 10,000 for persons visiting Andorra). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments.—As a general rule, there are no restrictions on foreign capital investments which lead to ownership of up to 50 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies. Prior administrative authorization is normally required for foreign invest- ments of more than 50 per cent. Special foreign partici- pation ratios and regulations apply to certain specific activities.6 Thus foreign capital investments are not allowed in defense industries or the news media, while in public service companies foreign capital holdings may 6 The foreign content of investment by Spanish companies with for- eign participation is determined in the following manner: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; (2) if foreign participation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered foreign to the extent of such participation; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is considered 100 per cent for- eign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered as domestic. 370 not exceed 25 per cent. Foreign investment in Spanish companies manufac tur ing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registration only; if no notification to the contrary has been received within 30 days, the registration may be deemed an authorization. Foreign investors may also acquire up to 100 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies, provided that the investment meets the following conditions: the investment must be for more than Ptas 100 million, at least 100 new jobs must be created, the investment must be likely to have a favorable effect on Spain's balance of payments, and it must not give rise to outflows of exchange in the form of royalty payments for technical assistance. Foreign direct investments are also authorized in Spanish companies that are in the process of increasing their capital. This may be effected through the pur- chase of shares or investment in the capital provided that the company creates 100 permanent jobs, that the foreign currency account shows a positive balance after one year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 per cent and that at least Ptas 100 million is invested in the purchase of shares. Foreign investments may be effected by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the Spanish exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing technology, patents, or licenses. Pro- ceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments may be transferred freely. (b) Portfolio investments.—Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted freely up to the percentages applicable to direct invest- ment. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conversion of foreign cur- rencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for further purchases of shares.7 Purchases by nonresidents of bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this paragraph, and the full sales proceeds are transferable. (c) Real estate investments. —Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, within certain limits,8 7 However, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation proceeds abroad. 8 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality, if financed with funds imported from abroad, are freely permitted by a general authorization, as follows: (1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwelling for per- sonal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apartment building, and (3) up to three for apartments in a single apartment building. There are separate regulations governing the purchase of business premises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution free ly permitted if financed w i th pesetas derived f rom convertible currencies or f rom balances in nonresident peseta accounts (A or B Accoun t s ). The M in is try of Commerce and Tourism has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor w i th a document ce r t i fy ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed f rom External Accounts in In te rnal Pesetas. Irrespec- tive of the method of financing, ru ral properties pur- chased may not exceed 4 hectares of irr iga ted land or 20 hectares of un i r r iga ted land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a res iden t, the f u ll sales proceeds are t rans fe rab le if the in i t ial purchase was financed with convertible fore ign currency or w i th pesetas f rom an External Account in Conver t ib le Pesetas, an A Account, or a B Account. If the in i t ial pu rchase was financed w i th pesetas f rom an Ex ternal Account in In t e rn al Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is t ran s fe rab le. (d) Bank credit.—Local bank c red it extended at m ed ium te rm or long te rm to Spanish firms w i th fo re ign pa r t ic ipa t ion in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives, but such c red it may be g ran ted for up to 18 mon ths, irrespec t ive of the degree of fo re ign p a r t i c ip a t ion, on the same c o n d i t i o ns as are app l ied to w h o l ly Spanish-owned f i rms. (e) Other credits.—The g r an t ing of loans by non- res iden ts to re s iden ts requ i res a u t h o r i z a t i on by the B a nk of Spa in. Supp l ie rs' c red i ts ex tended to res iden ts by non res iden ts requ i re au tho r i z a t ion by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tou r ism. 2. Ou tw a rd T rans fe rs (a) Direct investments. —As a general ru le, d i rect inve s tmen ts abroad by res iden ts r e q u i re app rov al which is g r a n t ed l ib e r a l ly, prov ided t h at the inv e s tm ent con- t r ibu t es to the expan s ion of Span ish expor ts. No f o rm al a u t h o r i z a t i on is requ i red for such i n v e s tm e n ts when u n d e r t a k en by Spanish f i rms wh ich meet the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ion s: ( 1) For inv e s tm en ts of up to P tas 10 m i l- l ion, the f i rm 's to t al fo r e ign inv e s tm en ts mu st not exceed 40 per cent of its assets in Spa in, the i n v e s tm e nt must c o n t r i b u te to an increase in expo r ts, and the pa r t ic ipa- t i on of the Span ish f irm in the cap i tal of the fo re ign c om p a ny mu st be at least 20 per cen t. (2) For inves t- m en ts over Ptas 10 m i l l i o n, the above c o n d i t i o ns also app ly and, in add i t ion, the net assets of the Spanish f irm mu st exceed P tas 100 m i l l i on and the f irm must have been g ran ted an "export card" (carta de exportador). (b) Loans. —Approval of reques ts by n o n b a nk re s ident firms to g rant loans to non r e s id en ts is based on c r i t e r ia s im i l ar to those app l ied to res iden ts' reques ts to m ake d i rect inve s tmen ts abroad. Supp l iers' c red i ts f r om Span- ish residents to non r e s id en ts r e q u i re au tho r i z a t ion by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tou r ism. There has been no expe r ience w i th the i s su ing of bonds in the Spanish cap i tal m a r k et by n o n r e s i d e n t s, nor w i th short-term c red i ts g ran ted by Spanish b anks to SPAIN nonresidents other than certain export credits granted d irec t ly to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the M in is try of Commerce and Tourism. Furthermore, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed with f u n ds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not requ ire prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for num isma t ic purposes. Otherwise, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Only the Bank of Spain is allowed to import or export gold, and indu s t r i al requ iremen ts are met by imports effected by the Bank of Spain. There is a global quota for imports of gold f rom member countries of the EEC. Changes during 1978 January 13. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Tourism was authorized to delay for a discretionary period the g r a n t i ng of import licenses for a comprehensive range of steel products. January 18. Royal Decree No. 3416/77 of the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism established a quota f ree of impo rt du ty for imports of 100,000 metric tons of v i t reous ha rd maize for specific uses. January 28. Several Royal Decrees of the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism were pub l ished setting quotas f r ee of impo rt du t ies for the impo r ta t ion of a number of p roduc t s, as fo l low s: 10,000 tons of steel products (Dec ree No. 3 5 0 9 / 7 7 ); 15,000 me t r ic tons of cotton (Decree No. 3 5 1 0 / 7 7 ); 5,000 metric tons of bu tyl a lcohol (Decree No. 3 5 1 1 / 7 7 ); 7,500 tons of cold-rolled p la te steel, 13,000 tons of hot-rolled plate steel, and 5,000 tons of ho t-ro l led strips of steel (Decree No. 3 5 1 2 / 7 7 ); 555,000 tons of coal (Decree No. 3415 /77 ); and 5,000 me t r ic tons of f lakes of cellulose acetate (Dec ree No. 3513 /77 ). February 4. A resolution of the customs administra- t ion prov ided that for a number of p roduc ts ( inc lud ing c e r t a in Pha rmaceu t ica l s, textile f ibe rs, and industrial goods) impo rt licenses in the f r am ewo rk of global quo tas wou ld no longer be r equ i r ed, but that these p roduc ts cou ld be impo r ted by p rov id ing a simple im p o rt dec lara t ion. March 30. It was announced that persons leaving Spa in cou ld t ake out no more t h an Ptas 3,000 in Spanish b a n k n o t e s. Spanish na t iona ls and fo re igne rs residing in Spain cou ld, when t rave l ing p r iva te ly, take out the e q u i v a l e nt of Ptas 50,000 in fo re ign cu r rency acquired in Spa in or, in the case of business t rave l, Ptas 100,000. April 14. Decree No. 1078/78 regulated direct and po r t fo l io inve s tment abroad by Spanish ind iv idua ls and 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN companies and by residents of Spain. Investments up to Ptas 10 million, or its equivalent, could be made freely provided the investment contributed to the consolidation of the investor's exports, did not represent more than 40 per cent of the investor's assets, and that the partici- pation of the Spanish firm in the capital of the foreign company was at least 20 per cent. Investments of over Ptas 10 million required, in addition, that the net assets of the Spanish firm must exceed Ptas 100 million and that the firm must hold an "export card." April 27. Some savings banks were permitted to deal in fore ign exchange; previously, such operations had been l im i ted to commercial banks. June 23. By Royal Decree No. 1388/78 foreign banks were allowed to open branches in Spain: they would be required to put up a capital of Ptas 750 mil- lion for a branch and Ptas 1,500 million for a sub- sidiary. Each foreign bank was restricted to three branches. Only 40 per cent of the lend ing operations of fore ign banks in Spain could be financed with pesetas f rom the local marke t; the remainder had to be financed f rom fore ign funds. July 12. The Bank of Spain introduced a special deposit requirement of 100 per cent in respect of the increase in certain nonresident accounts (peseta accounts for payments in Spain and convertible peseta accounts). Accounts of these types opened since June 22, 1978 would not bear interest. July 29. In order to stabilize rapidly rising foreign exchange reserves, the Spanish authorities decided to increase imports by selective tar iff cuts. By Royal Decree No. 1780/78 of the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism ta r i f fs on nonagricultural goods subject to duties greater than 10 per cent would be reduced by 20 per cent in a three-month period. Moreover, there would be liberalization of a number of products subject to quotas, including pumps, compressors, certain chemical products, various types of tractors, and photographic equipment. August 25. Royal Decree No. D-2239/78 established quotas f ree of import duties for coal for electricity generation. Quotas free of import duties were estab- lished for certain steel products, laminated platings, and para-xylene by Royal Decree Nos. 2240/78 to 2243/78. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were SLRs 15.49 and SL Rs 15.52, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' transactions with their customers are fixed daily for the six currencies in which the Central Bank deals.1 The Central Bank deals with commercial banks at the middle of the buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' telegraphic transfers. The Central Bank has established margins between buying and selling rates equivalent to SLRs 1.50 per US$100 and SL Rs 3.00 per <£ stg. 100. Equivalent margins have been estab- lished for the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Indian rupee, and the Japanese yen. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank stands ready to provide forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars only. At the end of 1978 the Central Bank sold U.S. dollars forward at a premium over spot rate of SL Re 1 per US$100 a mon th, and purchased U.S. dollars forward at a discount against spot of S L R el per US$100 a month. The option for delivery dur ing the maximum period of two months is permitted at an added margin of SL Re 1 per US$100 for the first month and SL Rs 2 per US$100 for the second month. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commer- cial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements2 and with Egypt must be made through the relevant special accounts. Pay- 1 Deutsche ma rk, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 People's Republic of China, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. ments in respect of trade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Pakistan (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Iran, and Nepal) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary units or in the currency of a member of the Asian Clearing Un ion; for settlements with Pakistan, these arrange- ments are applicable to invisibles only. For settlements with all other countries (except Rhodesia) payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other pay- ments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign cur- rencies.3 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees f rom an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency.3 Special procedures apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by foreign banks, firms, and companies registered outside Sri Lanka and by persons residing abroad. A local credit to these accounts, which is tantamount to approval for remittance abroad, and debits in respect of remit- tances abroad require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding f u n ds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds may be used in Sri Lanka for cer- tain investments, subject to the prior approval of the Con- troller of Exchange. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a maximum of SL Rs 100,000 are allowed from those accounts, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earn- ings, derived f rom the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the mak- ing of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to ma in ta in nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.4 Credits to the accounts 3 Aus tra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 4 In deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in the four convertible currencies may be credited. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange con- trol approval for payments outside or within Sri Lanka in foreign currency, while the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of three years from the date of arrival of the account holder in Sri Lanka. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for a list of specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohol, and cer- tain consumer goods, in addition to several ma jor food items, i.e., rice, flour, and wheat grains. Imports of specified commodities5 are restricted to government or state corporations; these commodities are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval proce- dures apply to a list of imports of capital goods. The Local Investment Advisory Committee approves the import when the investment is local and the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment. No prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000 in value. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected only against sight letters of credit. An author- ized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a Nonresident Account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consign- ment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of Indian rupees 2,000 an adult and Indian rupees 1,000 a child under 12 years of age, once every two years, for travel to Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Thailand; the U.S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amounts may be allowed. In addi- tion, basic allowances of <£ stg. 500 for an adult, and 5 These include rice, wheat flour (but not corn flour), Maldive fish, dried fish, beedi leaves, petroleum products, and films. 374 £ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age, are allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Addi- tional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant institution. Banks can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, or director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the par- ticular trip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for the above-mentioned neighboring countries and US$90 a day, also up to a maximum of 30 days, for other destinations. These limits apply to chairmen, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$30 a day for neighboring countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treatment abroad, within certain guidelines, if a government spe- cialist certifies that equally effective treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. Other types of travel allowance require prior consideration by the Central Bank. Exchange and passage for educational purposes at a recognized university or technical institute at under- graduate or postgraduate levels, or for specialized tech- nical training not available in Sri Lanka and of use to the country, is allowed by the exchange control authori- ties. Foreign exchange is made available up to £. stg. 100 a month for subsistence for graduate students ( <£ stg. 75 a month for undergraduates), in addition to actual fees and allowances for books. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of SL Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit «£ stg. 165 a month for a wife, <£ stg. 180 for a boy in a senior school, <£ stg. 160 for a girl in a senior school, <£ stg. 125 for a boy in a junior school, and «£ stg. 115 for a girl in a junior school, up to a maximum of one third of the gross monthly income of the parent; any excess of the total of such remittances over one third of gross monthly income is treated as an anticipa- tory transfer against the expatriate's entitlement to remit assets at the time of repatriation. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution current invisibles, subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances may be effected through commer- cial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of application, do not include undistributed profits from previous years, and do not include tranfers from reserves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the company's audi- tors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a pre- liminary computation of the remittable profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of nonresident partners) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary is a resident abroad; (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, sub- mission of the following documents is required: (1) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; (2) a certificate from the auditors con- firming that the remittance represents the final install- ment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (3) a computation of the remittable profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of rupee companies may be allowed without prior exchange control approval if such dividends are solely out of the profits of the year in question, and do not include any undistributed profits of previous years, or transfers from reserves and profits arising from the sale of fixed assets. Remittances of interim dividends can be made subject to the submission of the following documents: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the period; (3) a certificate con- firming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; and (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts due to them. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of: (1) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (2) a certificate f rom the auditors confirming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3) and (4) required for the remittance of interim dividends. SRI LANKA Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry. Conver- sion is authorized up to SL Rs 500. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coin not exceeding <£ stg. 20 a person (<£ stg. 10 for children under 12) out of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leav- ing Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to countries with which Sri Lanka maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A number of specified items require prior licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Exports of rubber to the People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are effected under state trading. The State Gem Corporation has control of exports of gems and jewelry. Exports of gems by the private sector require prior approval and the Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered, usually within six months of the date of ship- ment, except in the case of tea exports to London auc- tions when the prescribed period is four months. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coin. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistani cur- rency is not permitted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj- ects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incorporated in Sri Lanka. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of invest- ments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Gov- ernment may not be transferred abroad, but may be 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Ex- change; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are ap- proved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Invest- ments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, in- terest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 10 per cent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent to <£ stg. 300 an adult and <£ stg. 150 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 5,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 7,500 can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in fu l l, or up to <£ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to production of an income-tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Gov- ernment f rom time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reason- able amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families re turn ing to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require li- censes issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Central Bank. The People's Bank, the sole importer of gold, has not imported any nonmonetary gold since December 1975. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely re- stricted. Changes during 1978 January 20. Import duties were increased for a num- ber of consumer goods, including jams, cigarettes, per- fumes, certain garments, and chandeliers, while there was a decrease in the import duty on beedi leaves. January 31. Law No. 4 established the Greater Co- lombo Economic Commission to administer a free trade 376 zone. The Commission would have power to license enterprises to operate within the free trade zone and outside in certain circumstances. Any merchandise sold to the domestic market would be considered as imported to Sri Lanka and subject to the general provisions of the customs ordinance, but special customs provisions were to be applied to enterprises under the jurisdiction of the Commission. Banks could be authorized to operate within the jurisdiction of the Commission, and they could accept deposits denominated in foreign currencies f rom nonresidents of Sri Lanka. February 27. Operating instructions were issued to authorized dealers concerning the utilization of foreign aid by ministries, government departments, and state cor- porations. Before applying for free foreign exchange to pay for imports, these entities were required to ascertain from the Director of External Resources whether for- eign aid was available to finance imports of specified goods. Only if foreign aid were not available would the Director of External Resources authorize the use of free foreign exchange. March 16. Authorized dealers were permitted to open letters of credit on deferred payment terms of up to a max imum of 180 days for the importation of drugs under Special Import License No. 1 of 1977. April 3. The Controller of Exchange announced that new letters of credit for import of aluminum powder and flakes were not to be authorized (see entry for June 14, below). April 12. Business travel allowances for travel cover- ing a period of up to 30 days were increased. For neighboring countries the allowance was raised from SL Rs 350 (approximately US$22) a day to US$45 a day for chairmen, directors, partners, and sole proprie- tors and from SL Rs 225 (approximately US$14) to US$30 for executives. For other destinations the allow- ance was increased from US$75 to US$90 for chairmen, directors, etc., and from US$50 to US$65 for executives. April 13. Import duties were reduced for a number of commodities, mostly intermediate goods. May 5. Import duties were modified for a number of commodities, including in fant food, certain plastics, printing paper (other than newsprint), paper, and paperboard. Duties on certain engines (diesel and others) were reduced on May 19. May 17. Commercial banks were authorized to open letters of credit without the requirement of prior licens- ing in respect of goods imported under the provisions of Special Import License No. 1 of 1977, for imports made under aid agreements when no remittance of for- eign exchange was involved. June 13. Export duties on instant tea were reduced from SL Rs 40 a kilogram to SL Rs 20 a kilogram. June 14. The Special Import License No. 1 of 1977 was modified. The letter of credit requirement was lifted from imports for personal use for amounts up to SL Rs 5,000. Previously, the maximum amount exempted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution was SL Rs 2,500. Certain adjustments were made to the list of items subject to licensing. Several items were de- leted ( inc lud ing newsprint, other paper, and plastics), while certain categories were reclassified. A lum inum powder and flakes were included in Schedule I of Special Import License No. 1 of 1977, and were made subject to prior licensing. June 14. Imports of preserved fish, pesticides, live animals, and certain other items were exempted from duties. Import duties on certain other items were re- duced, including barbed wire, frozen meat, certain pho- tographic equipment, and selected wood items. June 19. Commercial banks were authorized, w i thout prior permission f rom the Central Bank, to provide guarantees for transactions involving payments abroad to nonresidents or payments in foreign currency, and to give guarantees to a resident of Sri Lanka on behalf of a nonresident. July 7. The importation of motor vehicles under individual import license was exempted f rom the letter of credit requirement. July 14. The requirement that imports by government departments and various government agencies be made only by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation was eliminated. July 21. Remittances of claims from overseas buyers in respect of exports of coconut products were made subject to prior approval by the Coconut Marketing Board. July 21. Commercial banks were authorized to issue foreign exchange currency notes, coin, and travelers checks to Sri Lanka residents, to visitors, and to tourists against remittances received in their favor from abroad, for travel expenses in a number of specified currencies. The foreign currency could be sold only by the bank through whom the remittance was made. August 9. Imports of safety matches, allowed under Special Import License No. 1 of 1977, required the approval of the Controller of Imports and Exports. SRI LANKA August 10. The basic allowance for travel to Bang- ladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Thailand was increased f rom SL Rs 2,000 to Indian rupees 2,000 for adults, and from SL Rs 1,000 to Indian rupees 1,000 for children under 12 years of age. The allowance would continue to be granted every two years. August 17. Import duties on unmanufac tured tobacco (other than beedi tobacco) were increased f rom SLRs 170 a kilogram to SL Rs 200 a kilogram. October 3. Import duties on a wide range of com- modities were modified, while certain new subcategories were created. Duties were increased for certain items (cosmetics, automobile air conditioners), while they were reduced for biscuits, margarine, cardboard boxes, and certain cooling appliances. November 6. Prior export licensing was abolished for all commodities in Schedule III of the Export Regula- tions, 1974, under the Import and Export Control Act of 1969, except for betel leaves, fish, meat, metal and metal scrap, vegetables, timber and wood, and rice bran. November 6. Schedule I of Special Import License No. 1 of 1977 was fu r ther modified. Several items were deleted f rom the list of commodities subject to prior licensing, including tea, coconut products, coriander, sugar, fertilizer, safe ty matches, artificial resins and plastic material, plywood sheets ( for tea chests), box- board, certain base metals, and internal combustion engines. November 15. Export duties on cinnamon, carda- mom, citronella oil, and cocoa were reduced to one half of the previous levels; the export duty on black rubber was increased. On the same date, import duties on fertilizer were eliminated. December 1. Prior export licensing requirements were introduced for a list of commodities that included ani- mal skins and hides, animal feed, certain nonmetallic mineral products, metal ores, wires and cables, phar- maceuticals, gunny bags, tires and tubes, waste paper, vegetable oils, and ceramic tableware. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.5000. On December 29, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Sudan were LSd 0.3994 and LSd 0.4006, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are posted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in New York. A d i f fe rent effective rate arises f rom the applica- tion of exchange taxes or subsidies of LSd 0.10 per US$1 on the official rate, to payments and receipts other than those f rom exports of cotton lint. Receipts f rom remit- tances by Sudanese nationals working abroad and from certain other earnings of invisibles remitted from abroad are converted at LSd 1 = US$1.75.2 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, but all registration fo rms and licenses must be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual fore ign exchange budget that is drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and National Economy and approved by the Economic Council of the Cabinet. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresi- dent account or in any foreign currency, while receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any nonresident account or in any con- vertible currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline, Suez Canal dues, and 30 per cent of the savings of Egyptian nationals must be made in convertible currencies, while all other payments are settled through the bilateral account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. 2 With effect f rom March 27, 1979 the conversion ra te was adjusted to LSd 1 = US$1.50. 378 These accounts must be credited with convertible cur- rencies. Other foreign personnel working in Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in Sudan, may ma in ta in resident current or savings accounts in Sudanese pounds. Time and demand deposits denom- inated in convertible currencies may be opened for foreign individuals, companies, and organizations resi- dent abroad, Sudanese nationals working abroad, and expatriates, other than Egyptians. Blocked Accounts are maintained by former resi- dents. Earnings accruing to these accounts may be used w i th in Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports generally are licensed or accepted for registra- tion in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Imports of certain consumer goods, raw materials, spare parts, industrial goods, and com- mercial trucks are eligible for importation on a barter basis. Certain imports are permitted only when accept- able foreign f inanc ing is obtained. Sugar and wheat are imported only by a state agency. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Finance and National Economy and be validated by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Sudan. "Nil-value" licenses are issued to Sudanese nationals working abroad who have obtained the exchange to pay for imports from non-Sudanese sources, or to any other Sudanese national, provided that the exchange has been acquired from non- Sudanese sources. These licenses, which also require validation, are issued for a large number of consumer goods, raw materials, spare parts, and industrial goods. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before validation, and a surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. Capital goods, heavy trucks, tires and tubes, medicines, spare parts, raw materials for factories, and commodities imported either for government units or on behalf of government departments are exempt f rom advance deposits. Goods otherwise subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' ma tur i ty, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution margin of 10 per cent to 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. A stamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application fo rm for each remittance in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to a development tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Remittances are permitted for f am i ly main- tenance (up to LSd 360 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,380 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in Australia, Canada, Japan, and the United States is exempt from this ce i l ing), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a max imum of <£ stg. 60 every other year for an adult traveling to Western Europe and the United States, and <£ stg. 40 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, also au tho r ized by the commercial banks, are the equ iva lent of US$90 an adu lt atfd US$50 a child, a year. Exchange for travel must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2. Salaried fore ign na t iona ls not pe rmanen t ly resident in Sudan, except Egyptian na t iona ls (who are allowed to remit only 30 per cent of their sa la r ie s ), are permitted to rem it the ir bona fide current savings to any coun try other than Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and divi- dends earned by nonresidents may be remitted free ly upon presentation of the requ ired documents. The rem i t tance of income accruing f rom blocked assets in Sudan ( inc lud ing income f rom Blocked Accounts) is prohibited, except for earn ings f rom investments in government securities made before 1970. The exporta- tion of Sudanese currency is proh ib i ted. Stamp du t ies are payab le for v i r t u a l ly all paymen ts for invisibles. The du ty is LSd 5 on applications for rem i t tances of profits and d iv idends, for other t rans fe rs, and for foreign exchange for business trave l; LSd 2 on app l ica t ions for fo re ign exchange for tou r ism; and f r om LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for rem i t tances for other purposes; government remittances and those by diplo- ma ts are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. W i th the exception of cotton and gum ara- bic, all exports r equ i re a license. Expo r te rs must subm it an export fo rm to an au tho r ized b a n k. Except for hides and sk in s, au tho r ized banks may app rove these f o rms on ly if p a ym e nt is in the fo rm of cash aga inst documen ts or aga inst sight letters of credit or if p aym ent takes place in advance; exports on credit requ i re the approval of the Bank of Sudan. All commod i t ies are subject to SUDAN m in imum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some ma jor export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supply reasons. Certain, generally minor, exports may be sold on a fu ll or partial barter basis or on consignment. Most exports are subject to a develop- ment tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open accounts denominated in Sudanese pounds by remittance of foreign exchange at a rate of LSd 1 = US$1.75 (see footnote 2 ). Re transfer abroad of such amounts is f ree ly perm i t ted upon deduction of the exchange sub- sidy. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for purchases in du ty - f ree shops in Sudan. The same f a c i l i t i es are gran ted to certain groups in Sudan who earn fore ign exchange abroad, inc lud ing lawyers, engineers, owners of consu l t ing houses, chartered accountants, pensioners receiving pensions in foreign currencies, employees in in terna t ional and regional institutions in Sudan w i th earn ings in foreign exchange, Sudanese dip- lomats and missions paid in foreign exchange, and Sudanese na t iona ls who acquire properties abroad by inheritance or in other ways. Receipts f rom abroad in respect of other invisibles must be surrendered to au thor ized banks and are subject to the general prescrip- tion of currency requirements. Travelers entering Sudan may br ing in any amount in notes and coin of other coun tr ies but the impor ta t ion of Sudanese currency is fo rb idden. Capital Incoming fore ign capital for specified investment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a gua ran tee for repa t r ia t ion of the original capital and profits thereon. Em igran ts of Sudanese nationality may on depar ture t ran s fer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to the ir new coun t ry. Upon final depar ture from Sudan, resident foreigners may t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Subject to certain cond i t ions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domes t ica l ly produced gold. With these excep- t ions, res iden ts o ther th an the mone ta ry authorities and au tho r i z ed i n d u s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any f o rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry requ i re licenses issued by the Ministry of 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Commerce and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes during 1978 June 8. The official exchange rate of the Sudanese pound was adjusted f rom LSd 1 = US$2.87156 to LSd 1 = US$2.5000. The exchange tax/subsidy was raised from 5.18 piastres per US$1 to 10 piastres per US$1, resulting in an effective rate for all transactions, except exports of cotton lint, of LSd 1 = US$2. Ex- ports of cotton lint continued to be converted at the official rate. The special rate for remittances by Sudan- ese nationals working abroad, and for certain invisibles, was maintained at LSd 1 = US$1.75. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME1 (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sur iname is the Sur iname Gu i lder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at Sur. f. 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1978 the off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sur. f. 1.77 and Sur. f. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for cer ta in other currenc ies2 are set daily by the Cen tral Bank on the basis of the ma rket quo ta t ions for the U.S. do l lar and those currencies in Ams te rdam and the cen- tral rate for the U.S. do l lar in Su r iname, net of any commissions. There is no exchange ma rket in Su r iname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Su r iname fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In principle, all fo re ign exchange dea l ings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non- residents in domestic currency and o ther domestic assets. The au tho r i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, wh ich has delegated much of this authority, and issues licenses m a in ly for capital transac t ions and certain invisibles. The Board has au thor ized the Director of Economic A f f a i rs to issue impo rt and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank to provide fo re ign exchange for impo rt paymen ts (sub ject to presen ta t ion of an impo rt l icen se ); the la t ter au thor i ty is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appo in ted as au thor ized b a n ks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide fo re ign exchange for specified cu r rent payments w i thout requ i r ing an exchange license. They may also accept f ree of license those inwa rd t ran s fe rs of fore ign exchange that do not result f r om borrow ing abroad; the t ak ing up of fo r e ign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board app rova l. Except in the c ircums tances specified above, the au thor ized banks are not perm i t ted to sell fore ign exchange w i thout the submission of an exchange license by the rem i t ter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Su r iname gu i lders between Su r iname and fore ign coun tr ies other than the Ne the r lands An t i l les are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies,3 although paymen ts to and f rom 1 Suriname became a member of the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund on April 27, 1978. 2 Deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Ne ther lands gu i lders, and pounds sterling. 3 Au s t ra l ian dollars, A u s t r i an schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, East Caribbean do l lars, French f r an c s, G u y a na do l la r s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japane se yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, T r in idad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. the Ne the r lands An t i l les may also be "made in Nether- lands An t i l les gu i lders or Su r iname guilders. Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts, whe ther banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars w i th domestic banks; no ove rd ra f ts are pe rm i t ted. Nonresidents other than banks may f ree ly open accounts in Su r iname guilders with domestic banks; ce r ta in debits and credits are covered by a general license, wh i le all others are subject to a spe- cific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a mon th. Au thor ized banks may open non res ident accounts in Suriname guilders in the n ame of non res ident banks; these accounts also must not be ove rd rawn. Authorized banks may also open non re s ident accounts on behalf of nonres iden ts d raw ing pens ions f r om the Gove rnment or under company plans. T rans fe rs of up to Sur. f. 1,500 a mon th may be effected und er a general pe rm i t, and add i t ional amoun ts may be t r a n s f e r r ed under a special pe rm i t. Nonres ident guilders or fo re ign cu r rency accounts may not be credited with Su r iname bankno tes mailed f rom abroad or w i th the fo re ign cu r rency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are requ ired for all impor ts .4 Some i tems, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are proh ib i ted for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commod i t ies are prohibited f rom non-EEC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when or ig ina t ing in EEC coun tr ies; these in c lude coffee (roas ted and un ro a s t ed ), sugar, powdered m i lk, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unwo rked wood, and cer ta in metal fu rn i- ture. The impo rt of prohibited goods may be allowed when supp l ies are not available in Su r iname. Another g roup of commodities is subject to quota, irrespective of o r ig in; these inc lude matches, prefabr ica ted wooden houses, ce r ta in women's wear, certain foo twear, and cer- t a in wooden or cane f u r n i t u r e. Special conditions are a t tached to the impo rt of copra, rice, bu t t er (in packs of over 500 g r am s ), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 g r am s ), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the proh ib i ted nor the restricted list; the import of these commod i t ies also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision ra ther than to quo ta. A government agency, the Sur iname Central Import Service, acts as the sole impor ter of certain staple food s tu f f s. All other imports are licensed freely f rom any source. 4 However, two spec if ied m i n i ng companies do not need licenses for t h e ir own import r e q u i r em e n t s. Similar exemp t ions may be granted to fo r e ign companies for the ir indu s t r ial ac t iv i t ies in Suriname, provided t h at they pay for the ir impor ts f rom the ir own fore ign exchange ho ld ings. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME The import license serves as an authorization for pay- men t, exchange be ing made ava i lab le upon presentation of the license. Most licenses have a va l id i ty of six months, w i th in wh ich period the goods must be landed and paid for. A statistical fee of 1.5 per cent is levied on all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles requ ire ind iv idual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have au tho r i ty to provide fo re ign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain services ( b a nk charges, legal fees, membersh ip dues, copy and patent rights, and so f o r t h ); up to Sur. f. 150 an i tem a mon th for adver t is ing expenses and payments for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year f rom each rem i t ter in respect of gifts, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of g i f ts f r om Sur inamese res iden ts; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a mon th for the support of each member of the rem i t te r 's own f am i ly in the Ne ther lands An t i l les or the Ne the r lands, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 600-900 a mon th for a f am i ly un it ( f am i ly rem i t tances up to the same amoun ts to other coun tr ies require a license, wh ich is granted upon app l ica t ion ). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each t r ip (50 per cent of these amoun ts for children und er 14 ), depend ing on the des t ina t ion ;5 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of fore ign exchange sold and the da te, the purchase of travel exchange not being per- mitted un t il three days before depa r tu re. Bona f ide applications for larger amoun ts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Su r iname currency. The export by resident travelers of fore ign bankno tes is l im i ted to the amount of the ir travel allowance. Non- resident travelers may free ly purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also f ree ly take out any fore ign banknotes they brought in, provided that amoun ts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income f rom other investments, and paymen ts of moderate amoun ts for amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued free ly, provided that the exporter 5 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 750 for Guyana and French Guy an a; Sur. f. 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. 382 unde r takes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an au thor ized bank w i th in six mon ths of shipment. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and p l an t ing materials are granted only with the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Board to ma in ta in current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( in c lud ing export proceeds). All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may br ing in fo re ign currency w i thout limit and up to Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender on re tu rn to Su r iname any fore ign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liqui- da t ion of f u l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or o ther fo rms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- men ts made by nonresidents w i th foreign capital after Ju ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange ( inc lud ing loans) imported by the nonresident en trepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be t ran s fe r red w i th in three years; otherwise, they are con- sidered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm, and may only be t rans fe r red in annual installments of 20 per cent. An Investment Law provides for additional incentives to private investment. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli- cation for transfers abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fu r ther annual transfers are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued du r ing his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries6 Surinamese corpor- ate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing f rom nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. The Central Bank, however, permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dollars corresponding to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sur. f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms, or at Sur. f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold w i th an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 94071000.7 Authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for indus tr ial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not SURINAME meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. A gold coin with a face value of Sur. f. 100 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely b r ing in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coin are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold o rnamen ts is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to du ty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 per cent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1978 0 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembou rg, Ne the r lands, Ne ther lands Antilles, Un i ted K ingdom, and Un i ted States. 7 These amoun ts are to be ad jus ted in accordance w i th the revision of the off ic ial U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1978 this had not yet been done. October 30. A general permit was issued authorizing banks to sell foreign currencies of their choice to staff members of international organizations, who had been wo rk ing in Suriname, on their leaving the country. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural ema langen i ), which is pegged to the South A f r ican rand at E 1 = R 1. U.S. dollar rates quoted by the Monetary Authority of Swaziland are based on the fixed middle rate of E 1 = US$1.15, and buying and selling margins, as in South Africa, are held within 0.25 per cent (US$0.0029) of the middle rate. On December 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates were US$1.1529 and US$1.1471 respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche mark and the pound sterling based on the London market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the Kenya shilling and the Zambian kwacha based on their fixed peg to the SDR, modified by the computation of the daily SDR-U.S. dollar rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits; the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child; there is a smaller annual alloca- tion for travel to neighboring countries. Exchange Control Territory Capital Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control terr i tory comprising Lesotho, South A f r ica, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are not controlled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Afr ica, although Swaziland's trea tment of certain capital transfers to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area may be more liberal. Administration of Control The Monetary Au thor i ty of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions; transactions with residents of Rhodesia, or involving Rhodesian currency, are prohibited. Inward capital transfers, should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for transfers of capital, whether inward or outward, may depend on whether the applicant is a foreign national temporarily resident in Swaziland, a nonresident, or a resident. Holders of blocked emalangeni may purchase five-year nonresident bonds, the maturity proceeds of which are transferable, five years af ter purchase, to the currency area where the holder is a resident. Alterna- tively, holders may place their blocked balances in approved investments. Imports and Import Payments Changes during 1978 Swaziland is a member of a customs un ion with Bot- swana, Lesotho, and South A f r ica, and there are no import restrictions on goods or ig ina t ing in any country of the customs union. Imports from South A f r ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs un ion. Inso far as Swaziland imports goods direct from countries outside the customs un ion, such impor ts are usua l ly licensed in con fo rm i ty with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the March 29. The common import surcharge levied by the customs union was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 12.5 per cent. May 23. Arrangements were announced for sub- scription to Swaziland five-year nonresident bonds that were prescribed as a vehicle for investment of excess balances upon emigration f rom Swaziland to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area. September 22. The Bank of Credit and Commerce International (Swaziland) Ltd. was appointed an author- ized dealer in foreign exchange. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 2978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In manag ing the exchange rate of the k rona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central b ank) is guided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most impo r tant t rad ing partners. In construc- t ing the index the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 per cent of Sweden's total fore ign trade (exports plus impo r ts) du r ing the period 1972-76 and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's fore ign trade w i th each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index, w i th the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the weights are adjusted each year (on Apr il 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1973-77): Deutsche mark U.S. dollar Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish ma rkka French franc Netherlands guilder Belgian f ranc Italian lira Swiss f r anc Japanese yen Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canad ian dollar Total 16.9 16.0 13.4 10.2 9.5 7.1 5.3 5.1 3.8 3.3 2.5 2.4 1.9 1.4 1.2 100.0 The index value of 100 represents the benchmark for the effective va lue following the devaluation on August 29, 1977. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around th is benchma rk. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the R iksbank. The ma rket buy ing and selling rates for spot transactions in the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 29, 1978 were SKr 4.2950 and SKr 4.2960, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase foreign currencies, spot, from fo re ign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e low ). They may sell fore ign currencies, spot, to fore ign banks and other nonresidents against any other fore ign currency or Swedish kronor debited to an Exter- nal Kronor Account. Au thor ized banks may conclude with residents other than banks fo rwa rd exchange transactions covering cur- rent paymen ts and authorized payments for unlimited periods in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and char ter services, and paymen ts for imports, fre igh t, and charter services, for periods not exceeding ( 1 ) 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for ref inanc ing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports and (2) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks, forward, any foreign cu r rency against ano ther fore ign currency or Swedish kronor. Au thor ized banks may under certain conditions conclude fo rwa rd transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. The Board's deci- sions may be appealed to the Governing Board of the R iksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments (as defined in Sweden's exchange control legislation) are exempt f rom exchange control, provided that they are made through an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the Na t ional Agricultural Marke t ing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, be low ). 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kroner with authorized banks in Sweden: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans- fers f rom other External Kronor Accounts, with author- ized payments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for authorized payments to resi- dents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who had been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents after emi- grating. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; maintenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise pur- chases; taxes and other official charges; gifts to, and for the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden; amortiza- tion and interest payments on loans raised by an emi- grant before emigrating; and purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kroner, and of real estate. Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with author- ized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from External Kronor Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and may be cred- ited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kronor in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries and wages of persons sent abroad f rom Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The 1 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized payments in foreign cur- rencies. They may not bear interest, unless the Riksbank gives special permission. 386 accounts may be opened with authorized banks without prior determination of residential status. However, resi- dents may use ,the funds on these accounts when abroad only for maintenance expenses and purchases for per- sonal use while a nonresident may use such funds for current payments in Sweden. imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licens- ing when imported f rom countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these coun- tries are also liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports from the Republic of China of certain textiles are subject to a specific import regime. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Pakistan, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thai- land, and Yugoslavia) are regulated through special arrangements. In addition, imports of rubber boots from any country other than member countries of the EEC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restric- tions, and imports of specified textiles and garments f rom any source other than EEC or EFTA countries are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance pay- ments, may, as current payments, be made without per- mission through authorized banks and without the forma l i ty of presenting an import license. If the condi- tions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of per- sons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments .of a capital nature, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, resi- dents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coin and other means of payment; applications to the Riksbank for addi- tional amounts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. The export by travelers of Swedish banknotes in denominations larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export free ly Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, with some exceptions such as ships and scrap metal, are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity w i th the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an au thor ized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are subject to the same t rea tment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). Each person entering Sweden may br ing in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish bank- notes (in denominations for SKr 100 or less) and coin and un l im i ted amoun ts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which norma l ly is granted only if the investment is considered likely to promote exports or otherwise to benefit the balance of payments. Authorization may be conditional on foreign financing with an average ma tu r i ty of at least five years. F inanc ing abroad is, however, not required for invest- ments in sales companies and other companies which g ive rise to exports f rom Sweden, for investments invo lv ing relatively small amoun ts, or for investments in countries that are the m a in recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, t r a n s f er capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to but no more than SKr 125,000 for each fam i ly. A Swedish resident when em igra t ing is perm i t ted to t ran s fer up to SKr 100,000, sub ject to ve r i f ica t ion by the R ik sb ank. Before ob ta in ing permission f r om the Riks- bank to t r a n s f er the rema inder of his fund s, the em ig rant is requ ired to demons tra te his in ten t ion of m a i n t a i n i ng SWEDEN that status by living abroad during a so-called qualifica- tion period. Determination of this qualification period is tied to the assessment of resident status in terms of taxation law. When Swedish residents emigrate for a limited period, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive man- ner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity con- tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts f rom abroad only upon approval f rom the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than no rmal suppliers' credit f rom nonresidents must receive au thor iza t ion to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing abroad for periods of at least five years for purposes that are considered likely to benefit the balance of payments is normally permitted. The R iksbank also permits exporters to cover their nor- mal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Sup- pliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to ref inance such credit through a corresponding fore ign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions men- tioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. Residents are not normally per- m i t ted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad at long term for purposes of on-lending to residents. Foreign-owned compan ies in Sweden usually are per- m i t ted to borrow at long te rm f rom the parent com- panies. Genera l ly, the repayment of fore ign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new au tho r iza t ion f rom the R iksbank; such authoriza- t ions are g ran ted restrictively. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresi- dents; bond issues in f avor of other Scand inav ian coun- tr ies and the In te rna t ional Bank for Reconstruction and Deve lopment have been adm i t ted. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- zation, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (minor investments excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such invest- ments, including appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. In connection with nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational pur- poses, residents may, without authorization, both receive payment from, and grant credit to, nonresidents. Exist- ing loans connected with the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Fur- thermore, banks are permitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to SKr 25,000. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents, requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase f rom nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies using the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authorization buy from other residents foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies. A general license permits the repurchase abroad of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner, provided that an aff idav it can be produced showing either (1) that at no time du r ing the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired w i th the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities f rom a person domiciled in Sweden. The aff idav it is not required when the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (sw i tches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign currency f rom nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the fo rm of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresidents' holdings of kronor in External Kronor Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufac tured gold, most types of sem imanufac tured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scien- tific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value intended for collections. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System Payments for Invisibles The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Council on May 9, 1971 is 0.21759 gram of fine gold. On October 1, 1978 the Swiss Na t ional Bank announced a target range in the exchange market for the deutsche mark. Intervention occurs f rom time to time. The market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 was Sw F 1.62 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free ma rket rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated free ly in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs terri- tory. For purposes of capital control, na tu ral or juridical persons (including banks) domiciled in Liechtenstein are generally considered by Switzerland as residents,2 except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Insti- tutions, however, Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland f rom other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricultural prod- ucts and certain fuels. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports f rom all countries may be made freely. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the In terna t ional Mone ta ry Fund. 2 For details see the Federal Ordinance on the application of the Measures for the Protection of the Cu r rency in respect of the Princi- pa l i ty of Liechtenstein. Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss banknotes is free, while imports of foreign banknotes may not exceed Sw F 20,000 a person a calendar quarter.3 Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formality except that bank credits and pther bank lending to non- residents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and w i th a ma tu r i ty of 12 months or more, require permis- sion. This applies to foreign bond issues in Switzerland and to direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first placements of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) in amoun ts of Sw F 3 million or more a year must be submitted to the National Bank for authori- zation.4 Half of all capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank (bond issues, placements of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credits) must be converted into U.S. dollars at the National Bank. The other half has to be converted into foreign currency through domestic commercial banks. Issuance of foreign debt instruments expressed in Swiss francs and having a maturity of less than 12 months is discouraged. Foreign governments and mone- tary authorities may not acquire participations in loans, notes (except those of international development insti- tu t i on s ), and credits denominated in Swiss francs. Other nonresidents may do so only if they agree to hold such participations to ma tur i ty. Medium-term notes must be placed at fixed maturities without the possibility of advance repayment. Inward capital t rans fe rs are restricted and there is a ban on the sale of domestic securities to nonresidents.5 Some of the relevant regulations make a distinction 3 This l im i ta t ion was removed on Janua ry 24, 1979. 4 The requ i rement that fo re ign investors' subscriptions could not exceed 65 per cent of any issue of fo re ign bonds denominated in Swiss f rancs was reduced to 50 per cent on October 2, 1978 and abolished en t i re ly on J a n u a ry 24, 1979. 5 This ban was l i f t ed on Janua ry 24, 1979. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss nationality, the latter usually being exempt f rom pro- hibitions or approval requirements even when they have their permanent residence abroad. Na tu ral or juridical persons having their domicile or registered office in Liechtenstein are considered nonresidents for purposes of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. The definitions of the terms "foreigner" and "foreign funds" are not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Borrowing f rom nonresidents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident na tural and juridical per- sons other than banks requires the prior approval of the National Bank, which is not normally granted. The principal exemptions f rom this licensing requirement are for borrowing corresponding to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for credits up to Sw F 1 million, if taken up in foreign currency, used entirely abroad, and not converted into Swiss francs. In addition, approval is normally granted for borrowing f rom relatives abroad and Swiss residents may borrow once up to Sw F 50,000. In 1978 the banks have not been subject to any reserve requirements. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss f ranc deposits (including "fiduciary" or "trustee" f u n d s) received from nonresidents; however, savings accounts and similar accounts are subject to preferential treatment. Banks must charge a commission ("negative interest") of 10 per cent a calendar quarter on all nonresident-held Swiss f ranc deposits of Sw F 5 million or more and on all net increases after October 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss f ranc deposits, irrespective of maturity; increases up to Sw F 100,000 are exempt from this commission, and for accounts held by foreign banks domiciled abroad, the exemption limit is Sw F 250,000, if the balance on October 31, 1974 was less than Sw F 150,000.6 The banks have agreed to inform the Swiss National Bank of spot and forward transactions exceeding US$5 million; they must report their foreign exchange turnover involving Swiss francs (except when the daily turnover is less than Sw F 15 m i l l ion). They are required to cover daily their overall foreign exchange position, short positions in foreign currency being prohibited. Banks are required to report monthly their forward positions. Banks' forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents with a ma tur i ty of up to ten days are limited to 20 per cent of the October 31, 1974 level; for maturities of over ten days they are limited to 40 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level. There are no limits for forward sales when nonresidents acquire Swiss francs for the repayment of credits, promissory notes, and bonds up to three months ahead of maturity. Banks and finance companies must report monthly their "dealer positions" in foreign cur- 6 From March 1, 1979 the commission was applied to deposits in Swiss f rancs arising f rom the sale of securities denominated in Swiss francs. 390 rencies (their own assets and liabilities in foreign cur- rencies, spot and fo rw a rd ). Internationally active firms in Switzerland have agreed to inform the National Bank of spot and forward transactions exceeding US$5 million. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on be- half of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Such permission is also required for the acquisition of real estate by foreigners who have been resident in Switzerland for less than five consecutive years, unless they have been granted a residence permit. The approvals of the can- tons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Con- federation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coin are exempt) or sales tax (bars and coin are exempt). Im- port and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold Changes during 1978 January 23. The Federal Council notified the GATT of the extension of the emergency import quota on white wine. February 27. The Government issued an immediate ban on the sale of domestic securities to nonresidents (Anlageverbot). The sale to nonresidents of foreign securities denominated in Swiss francs was also for- bidden. Nonresidents were permitted to subscribe up to 35 per cent of new issues by foreign borrowers in Swiss francs. February 27. The limit on the import of foreign bank- notes of Sw F 20,000 a person a calendar quarter, which had been abolished on May 1, 1977, was reimposed. February 27. The National Bank was empowered to engage in fo rwa rd exchange contracts with maturities of up to two years, compared with up to three months hitherto. February 27. The requirement that banks were to cover their foreign currency liabilities on a currency- by-currency basis each day was lifted. Banks were still required to cover aggregate foreign liabilities by total foreign assets on a daily basis. March 1. The exemption of deposits by foreign cen- tral banks f rom the commission ("negative interest rate") on nonresident-held deposits in Swiss francs was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 1. Banks, which had been required to charge a commission ("negative interest rate") of 10 per cent a calendar quarter on specified increases in nonresident- held Swiss f ranc deposits over their October 31, 1974 level, were now required to extend the application of the commission as follows: ( 1) for accounts of between Sw F 1 million and Sw F 5 million, the deposits them- selves (ra ther than specified increases) became subject to the commission to the extent that they exceeded 80 per cent of their level of October 31, 1974, and (2) for larger accounts, the total amount by which the deposit exceeded Sw F 5 million became subject to the com- mission rather than the increase over the level of October 31, 1974. May 16. The ban on the sale of Swiss securities to nonresidents introduced on February 27, 1978 was some- what relaxed, the exercising of certain stock rights was perm i t ted, and the management of existing portfolios was facilitated. October 2. The Swiss National Bank announced a series of measures designed to offset the appreciation of the f ranc. In addition to increased in terven t ion in the exchange marke ts to raise the deutsche mark-Swiss f r a nc rate well above Sw F 0.8 = DM 1, these measures inc luded (1) increas ing the permissible subscription quo ta for nonres iden ts f rom 35 to 50 per cent for new issues by fo re ign borrowers in Swiss f r an c s; (2) amend- ing the requ i rement that the whole of the Swiss f r anc proceeds f rom cap i tal exports must be converted at the Na t ional Bank, to the effect that one ha lf may be converted th rough domes t ic commercial banks in to U.S. dollars; and (3) pe rm i t t ing nonresidents un l im i ted re inves tment of proceeds f r om the sale of Swiss securities. November 1. The Swiss Na t ional Bank announced that the swap l im i ts w i th the Federal Reserve Bank of New York were raised f rom US$1.4 billion to US$4 bil- lion and that the Na t ional B a nk was cons ider ing the pur- chase of SDR 325 million f rom the Un i ted States through the Bank for In te rna t ional Settlements. Moreover, the Na t ional Bank wou ld assist the U.S. Treasury in p lac ing U.S. Treasury bonds and notes denom ina ted in Swiss francs. SWITZERLAND November 14. The Swiss National Bank modified the changes introduced on October 2 by: (1) prohibiting nonresidents from adding the proceeds from sales of certain investment certificates to nonresident investment accounts which are exempt f rom the negative interest requirements; (2) allowing the conversion into any for- eign currency, through domestic commercial banks, of 50 per cent of the proceeds from capital exports; hitherto, these could be converted into U.S. dollars only; and (3) regarding purchases of newly placed notes and bonds issued by nonresidents as resident purchases if they would be financed with funds f rom nonresident investment accounts; therefore they would count toward the fulfillment of the minimum quota of 50 per cent for placement of such notes and bonds with residents. December 1. New arrangements were introduced to increase the flexibility of conventional forward opera- tions to insure against exchange risks. The scheme would be open to Swiss exporters selling their budgeted fore ign exchange receipts fo rwa rd, against Swiss francs, to their commercial banks. Such exporters might simul- taneous ly acquire from the National Bank a right to buy up to 40 per cent of the foreign exchange sold fo rwa rd, with the same ma tur i ty and at the same exchange rate. This right would be called a Devisenbezugsrecht (D B R ). DBRs were designed to help insure exchange risks on potential —as opposed to actual —commercial export business and to provide a de facto right to unwind up to 40 per cent of the under ly ing forward operation if the expected business were not to materialize. The scheme did not grant any preferen t ial rate for the exporter's forward sale. DBRs for U.S. dollars and deutsche ma rk might be acquired by all Swiss exporters of goods and services against payment of a premium. The prem ium would depend on the maturity (up to two years) and the proportion of the underlying forward contract covered by the DBR. These arrangements replaced the gentlemen's agreements between the National Bank and the watch, shoe, and textile and clothing industries. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1. In principle, there are two exchange rates, the official rate and the parallel rate, but since July 18, 1973 these have been unified. The Syrian Arab Republic confines its buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar within LS 3.8367 and LS 4.0133, respectively, per US$1; on Decem- ber 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 There is also a bazaar market. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for col- lection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fu lf i l led. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. At present, pro- ceeds of exports to all countries (except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agree- m e n t s )2 must be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,1 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain 1 Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French f r a n c s, I raqi d ina rs, I ta l ian l ire, Jo rdan d inars, Lebanese pounds, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. dollars. 2 People's Republic of Ch ina, No r th Korea, Sri Lanka, U.S.S.R., and Viet N am. 392 neighboring countries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, Egypt, the Gulf states, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Proceeds from exports to Egypt may be ob- tained in "acceptable" banknotes. Prescription of cur- rency requirements are not applied to outgoing pay- ments. All payments to and receipts f rom Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be cred- ited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic upon presentation of evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Resident nationals wishing to open such foreign accounts are required to present written evidence as to the origin of the funds to be transferred. Transfers abroad from these accounts may be made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resi- dent in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplo- matic and UN missions and their staffs. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel rate and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not trans- ferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rho- desia, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies exclusively qualified to import may import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) im- ports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products (how- ever, waivers may be granted in order to meet the needs of industry or to obtain supplies of food s tu f f s ); and (2) all other goods. In principle, imports must come ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution direct f rom the country of origin, w i thout the inter- vention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to per- mit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require ind iv idual import licenses before the placing of orders when valued at over LS 500. The state trading agencies' operations are governed by an annual import plan. Under that plan, they prepare documentation relating to import transactions which they submit to the banks and the customs authorities. Certain imports (not appearing in the list of prohibited imports) f rom Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt f rom license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own fore ign exchange resulting from economic activities abroad or representing assets held abroad whose repatri- ation is not legally required (deposits in fore ign bank accounts must have been established before Decem- ber 31, 1970); the value of the import licenses may not exceed LS 100,000 (except for capital goods). Import licenses are granted free ly to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a documen tary letter of credit is opened at the Commercial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the fu ll amount with his fore ign exchange. Licenses to import specified items that nor- ma l ly are prohibited (certain luxu ry consumer goods) up to a value of LS 24,000 for a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Cham- ber of Commerce and the M in is t ry of Supply and Internal Trade and whose names appear on the list of payers of income tax published by the M in is try of Finance. No licenses are required for imports in this category where the va lue does not exceed LS 500 an item a mon th. Foreign currency accounts may be debited free ly for import payments, provided that a license is obtained, when necessary. There are l im i ted import facilities for travelers arr iv ing f rom abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, the follow- ing taxes, collected by the customs, are applied on imports: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent; (2) a consump- tion tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent; (3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the t a r i f f; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the t a r i f f; SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the ta r i ff for goods t r an s f e r r ed by ships through Syrian harbors (most com- modities may be imported only through Syrian harbors); and (6) an ocean tax of 0.20 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods t rans fe r red by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made at the parallel rate by letters of credit, time draf ts, or on a collection basis, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tem- porary resident account. Importers may transfer the fore ign exchange w i th in three months a f ter the due date of the bill or d ra f t; t rans fer at any later date requires the prior approval of the Exchange Office. The im- porter submits the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Commercial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collec- tion. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Payments for Invisibles Insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All paymen ts for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the parallel rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other fore ign exchange purchased at the parallel rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan A rab Jamah ir iya, Morocco, Sudan, and Tun is ia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Sudan, and Tun is ia), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amoun ts. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the parallel rate also exist for other transactions in invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by fore ign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of fore ign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accru- ing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a mon th for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities also are reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main products and of all goods of foreign origin re- quire licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required by which the exporter under- takes to br ing the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months af ter the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the parallel rate (except that the proceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the official ra te ); as noted above, the two rates have been un if ied since 1973. Certain manufac tured exports re- ceive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and olives and oil and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 per cent ad valorem. Other exports of agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 9 per cent plus 3 per mill in case of export by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those f rom other invisibles at the parallel rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Non- residents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers take place at the parallel rate. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not (without prior approval) be acquired by nonresi- dents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. Domestic trans- actions in gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Exports of gold are subject to export licensing, while imports are exempt from import licensing. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1978 November 1. The Cooperation Agreement between the EEC and the Syrian Arab Republic, signed on January 19, 1977, entered into force. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is maintained in a fixed relationship to the SDR at T Sh 9.66000 = SDR I.1 The rate of the Tanzania shilling for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Bank of Tanzania (the central b a n k ), is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1978 the buy- ing and selling rate of the Bank of Tanzania for the U.S. dollar was T Sh 7.41484 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in international markets. The rates for the Kenya shilling and the Uganda shilling are set at par. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tra t ion of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Au thor i ty for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capi- tal payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the ma in land, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and ex- port control by the Exports Controller in the M in is t ry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or ex- porter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an inde- pendent system of foreign t rade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state t rad ing agencies (B izan je and the Zanz ibar State Trading Corpora t ion). With Kenya and Uganda, Tanzania formed part of the East A f r ican Commun i ty but af ter the Commun i ty was effectively dissolved early in 1977, w i th a few exceptions, Tanzania treats residents of Kenya and Uganda on the same basis as all other nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzan ia and non- residents no rma l ly must be made either in convertible 1 The Tanzan ia s h i l l i ng was deprec ia ted by 10 per cent aga in st the SDR on J a n u a ry 20, 1979. On the same da te, the peg for the T an z an ia s h i l l i ng was sw i t ch ed f r om the SDR to a basket comp r is ing the c u r r e n c i es of T an z an i a 's m a in t r a d i ng p a r tn e r s. - A u s t r a l i an do l lars, A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C an ad i an do l lars, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu tsche m a r k, French f r a n c s, Ind i an rupees, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, P ak i s t an rupees, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swed ish k rono r, and Swiss f r a n c s. currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated nonresident accounts and may be either External Accounts or un- specified nonresident accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments to residents of foreign coun- tries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian and South African currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for permitted purchases of foreign currencies f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice of 1977 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semiannual fore ign *exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. All imports to the ma in land from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzi- bar. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manu fac tu red goods when imported f r om and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported f rom and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance paymen ts for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import pay- ments norma l ly not being granted un t il a f ter customs clearance. Most suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zan ia. Noncitizens work ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzan ia even tua l ly may, throughout their period of emp loymen t, rem it abroad up to one third of their mon th ly salary to cover f am i ly maintenance, savings, etc. App l ica t ions to remit in excess of one third of 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA salary, or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month, are con- sidered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Per- sons making uncommitted remittances under these ar- rangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Family remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident trav- elers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic cur- rency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and exports of certain other prod- ucts are subject to controls and, if there is a local short- age, may be restricted. Exports may not be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning trav- eler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently, who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of mak ing uncommitted re- mittances of savings, may t rans fer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount will be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Pro- tection) Act, 1963 should be obtained. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents from residents of Tanzanian securities provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds f rom resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tan- zania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trad ing partners; the weighting reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in payments. The exchange rate of the baht in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is determined partly on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign exchange market at da i ly fixings managed by the Exchange Equalization Fund. The Exchange Equalization Fund intervenes to keep the relationship of the baht to the basket of currencies within a margin and to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. The authorities deal with com- mercial banks only in U.S. dollars at the fixing rate, which is also used as the middle rate for transactions between commercial banks and customers. Buy ing and selling rates applicable to commercial banks' transac- tions with their customers in respect of telegraphic transfers for six other currencies1 are determined da i ly on the basis of the daily fixing rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates in international markets. On December 29, 1978 the middle official rate was B 20.39 = US$1 and the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers for their customers were B 20.35 and B 20.43, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies2) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given automati- cally for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen ts); certain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification.3 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. 1 Deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, and Singapore dollars. 2 No authorized company has yet been established. 3 No such notification has yet been issued. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In prin- ciple, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, inter- national organizations stationed in Thailand, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds f rom sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nation- ality, and funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. In addition to the above, the Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency depos- its with commercial banks in Thailand. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restrictions. In addition, a commercial bank may pay an interest rate of up to 12 per cent per annum on such deposits. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportion- ate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceed- ing nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; mili- tary equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to tem- porary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign in- surers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insur- ance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized per- sons are allowed to sell foreign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceeding US$250 a person a month. In the case of a foreign tourist wishing to convert baht into foreign currency notes, the authorized person may exceed the above limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$800, for trips of less than 10 days or US$80 a day for trips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 45 days;4 for business travel, additional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. For family remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local cur- rency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists, however, may take out without prior authorization up to US$2,000 a person in foreign banknotes and coin, or such higher amount as they may have declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an individual license, and exports to South Africa are 4 This time period was reduced to 30 days on January 31, 1979. 398 prohibited. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.5 All other com- modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia and South Africa. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs where shipments of tin or rubber exceed B 1,000 in value and, with minor exceptions, where imports of other goods exceed B 10,000 in value. Export proceeds must be col- lected and must be sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for col- lection, or 15 days af ter the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments up to any value but they require a certificate of exportation to take out other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author- ized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit (B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on the same passport). Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29, 1977); this treat- ment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain eco- nomic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The National Economic Development Board must approve external borrowing by the public sector. 5 These include gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and requ ire a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quan t i ty for a certain period. In add i t ion to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of B 50 per troy ounce of gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while traders' exports of gold ornaments, exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export du ty or taxes. Changes during 1978 January 1. Import duties on certain goods f rom mem- ber countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations were reduced. A temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on certain yarns and fabrics. (The surcharge was canceled on June 7.) February 1. The importation of 18 items (ma in ly luxu ry consumer goods) was banned. A temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on certain steel wires, and a temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent was imposed on certain fishing nets, both surcharges to be effective until Janua ry 31, 1979. March 7. An import licensing requ irement was imposed on electronic and mechanical amusement games whether unassembled or complete. March 8. It was announced that hencefor th the external value of the baht would be determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of the currencies of Thailand's ma jor t rad ing par tners, the weighting reflecting both trad ing shares and the cur- rencies used in payments. March 8. Import du t ies for 141 commodities (ma in ly luxu ry consumer goods) were increased. April 6. An import licensing requ i rement was imposed on buses and coaches seating at least 30 persons. April 22. An export licensing requ i rement was imposed on rattan. June 7. A temporary impo rt surcharge of 30 per cent was imposed on sod ium hyd rox ide and a temporary import surcharge of 20-30 per cent was imposed on adhesive plasters, both surcharges to be e f fec t ive un t il May 31, 1979. July 2. TJie export control on fresh longan was l i f ted. August 2. Exports and imports to and f rom South Afr ica were prohibited. THAILAND August 2. Temporary import surcharges effective until August 1, 1979 were imposed as follows: (1) 20 per cent on filters and certain engine parts, (2) 10 per cent on calcium carbide and certain plasticizers, and (3) 20 per cent on discontinuous viscose rayon fiber. August 4. The Government announced its decision to seek provisional accession to the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade. August 7. The buying and selling rates for the baht quoted by the Exchange Equalization Fund were adjusted to B 20.175 and B 20.225, respectively, per US$1. August 22. It was announced that foreign mining companies with Thai mineral concessions would be required to register as Thai companies with no more than 40 per cent foreign ownership. August 31. An import surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on menthol flakes and powder, effective until August 30, 1979. September 27. The ban on exports of all kinds of polyester fiber was removed. October 3. Temporary import surcharges effective un t il October 2, 1979 were imposed as follows: ( 1) 10-40 per cent on certain aluminum foil, (2) 25 per cent on insulating glass fiber, and (3) 20 per cent on certain iron and steel wire. October 12. A licensing requirement was reimposed on exports of all types of polyester fiber to Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States following the negotiation of trade agreements between these countries and Thailand. October 19. The import of heavy fuel oil for use in boilers and industrial furnaces was permitted. October 20. Export control on plastic pellets was l if ted. November 1. The authorities instituted a system whereby the baht-U.S. dollar rate would be determined at a da i ly fixing session par t ly on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign exchange market. November 16. The export control on kenaf and ju te tow and waste was removed. However, the control on exports of ju te, in effect since August 25, 1977, remained in force. November 24. Tariff rates on imports of eight raw material items were reduced. A temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent was imposed on wrought plates, sheets, and strips of a lum inum. November 29. The export control on syrup and sugar candies was removed. An import licensing requirement was imposed on circular saw blades, chain saw blades, and chain saws, inc lud ing parts and accessories. December 20. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent was imposed on certain types of gauze. December 25. The licensing requirement for exports of certain textiles was extended to cover exports to Finland and Canada. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the ra te for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. These rates include a banking commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries out- side the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effec ted through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1 'A f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 400 Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally rtiade through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non- resident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, with- out authorization, with BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of South Afr ican origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the former French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and when they are destined for commercial purposes. Imports from all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import pro- gram established each year; as yet, however, the program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned milk, soap, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, corrugated iron, and iron rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one mon th before shipment if a docu- men tary credit is opened, or one mon th be fo re the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- men ts for invisibles to France, (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic t rade transac t ion has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to non- res iden ts in the fo rm of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also gene ra l ly perm i t ted. For tourist travel, residents t rave l ing to countries other than France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ldren under t en) for any number of trips a year; any fo re ign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing af ter return to Togo must be surrendered w i th in eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, sub ject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The t rans fer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work pe rm i t, provided that the t ran s fer takes place w i th in th ree mon ths of the pay period. Residents may at any t ime and w i thout ind ica t ing the purpose of the t rans fer m a ke paymen ts abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes bu t, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, they must declare to thq customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out fo re ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn in their names abroad. :!This amount is ad ju s t ed for (1) the amount of f o r e i gn currency sold for CFA f r an c s, and (2) any fo re ign cu r r en cy acqu i red in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Cu r r en cy, (b) the conversion of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy trave lers checks, etc., made out in the name of the t r av e l e r, and (c) any repu rchases of fo re ign cu r rency (pe rm i t ted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA f r a n cs resu l t ing f r om the sale of fo r e ign cu r rency. TOGO Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monop- oly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other commodities. The due date for pay- ment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their des t ina t ion and the proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a mon th af ter the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account country; authorized diamond purchas ing offices, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with au- thorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an author- ized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisible transactions with France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, mu st be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the fo rmer French F*ranc Area. Resi- dents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offer ing for sale of fore ign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations requ ire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO with ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of f u n ds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy.4 Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct invest- ment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Finance and Economy. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; ( 3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international mer- chanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Economy; exempt from this 4 Inc lud ing those made through fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo th at are d i rec t ly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of fo re ign companies. requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the main- tenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive cer- tain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) im- ports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated ar t ic les); and ( 3) imports and exports by trav- elers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 January 10. SONACOM was granted a monopoly on all imports of tobacco and tobacco products. June 8. Decree No. 78/53 laid down new financial arrangements with Guinea and Guinea-Bissau. It also established regulations for the receipt and remittance of BCEAO banknotes by authorized intermediaries. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The offi- cial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago levies exchange charges up to a max imum of 1 per cent on purchases or sales of exchange. At present, these charges amount to 0.50 per cent for sales and nil for purchases. Administration of Control The au tho r i ty to adm in is ter exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, ac t ing as agent of the Governmen t. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority w i th respect to the approval of payments for visible impor ts to the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Com- merce, and w i th respect to payments up to specified amoun ts for cer ta in current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of fore ign cu r r en cy2'3 and for control over both current and capital transac t ions. All overseas pay- ments and t rans fe rs requ i re the approval of the exchange control authorities; paymen ts to Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the g ran t ing of credit, loan, or ove rd ra ft facilities by resident banks to non res iden ts and local nonres iden t- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Car ibbean Currency Author- ity and the Cen tral Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago bu t, under an arrangement with the mone tary au tho r i t ies concerned, the notes are pur- chased by the mone tary au thor i t ies and are repa tr ia ted by them in re tu rn for reciprocity of t rea tment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Impo rt and export licenses, when requ ired, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the M in i s t ry of Indus try and Commerce. 1 Barbados do l la rs, Canad ian do l lars, deu tsche m a r k, East Car ibbean do l lars, French f r a n c s, G u y a na dollars, Jama ica do l lars, Japanese yen, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. - Under T r in idad and Tobago's exchange con trol r egu l a t ion s, a ll cu r renc ies o ther th an the T r in id ad and Tobago do l lar a re considered fo re ign currenc ies. 3 If the business of a t r a d e r, firm, or company invo lves f r e q u e nt rece ip ts and p a ym e n ts in f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i e s, p e rm i s s ion may be g r a n t ed for the re ten t ion of a po r t ion of rece ip ts in a Foreign C u r r e n cy Ac- coun t, subject to the r e q u i r em e nt th at periodic s ta temen ts of c red i ts and debits to the account mu st be subm i t ted to the au thor i t ies. Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency4 except Rhodesian and South African currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Payments from all countries other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accoun ts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds f rom the sale of gold and fo re ign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trini- dad and Tobago; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other fore ign currency and may be t rans fe r red freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the excep- tion that t ran s fe rs f rom Ex ternal Accounts held by resi- den ts of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM )S to any coun t ry outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank be ing satisfied that the exchange control au thor i t ies of the holder's coun try of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds f r om the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Tr in idad and Tobago, or proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign secu r i t ie s ). The use of balances on Blocked Accoun ts is subject to au thor iza t ion. Blocked funds may be re inves ted in local securities which are not redeemable e i ther op t iona l ly or con t rac tua l ly w i th in four years from the date of acqu is i t ion. The income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at ma tu r i ty of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. 4 A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f r a n c s, Bu rmese kya ts, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish k r o n e r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Japanese y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k rone r, Por tuguese escudos, Rhode s ian do l la rs, Sou th A f r i c an r and, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- no r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. do l la rs. 5 The CAR ICOM coun t r ies are A n t i g u a, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G r e n a d a, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, S t. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Luc ia, St. V incen t, and T r in idad and Tobago. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a Negative List. The list covers over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. Thus trade with Rhodesia and South Africa is prohibited and all imports from Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the Negative List s ta tus of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Trade with CARICOM countries is effected in the national currency of the member coun- tries concerned except where payment is to be made direct to a third coun try for imports of raw or semi- processed industrial materials. Imports f rom all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cos- metics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and motor vehicles, either complete or semiknocked-down. Fire- arms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and hea l th reasons. Cer- ta in food products are covered by the Agricultural Ma rke t ing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imported rice and oils and fa ts are also subject to state trad ing; rice is no rma l ly imported f rom Guyana at agreed prices.6 All imports of food and drugs must sa t isfy prescribed s tanda rds. Impor ts of meat, live an ima ls, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of m in ing materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported und er open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be ob ta ined f rom the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports requ ire exchange control approval. If prescription of currency arrange- ments are complied with, exchange licenses are granted w i thout restriction or undue delay provided the authori- ties are satisfied that no unau thor ized capital t ran s fer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles requ ire the specific approval of the au tho r i t ies. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where pay- ments to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Gove rnmen t, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange w i th in prescribed l im i ts for certain transactions 0 Packaged rice may be impo r ted th rough no rmal comme rc ial chan- nels, but such impo r ts are not usua l ly allowed from coun tr ies other than Guy ana unless the con trac ted supplies are not for thcom ing. 404 in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Trav- elers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on depar- ture, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted. Exports of certain goods usually require an individual license. These include some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petro- leum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds f rom sugar exports are subject to a tax which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usua l ly authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted f ree ly, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; further- more, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized depositor- ies have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization of sterling securities is permitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonres iden ts of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above ); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f ter Janua ry 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in fore ign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in s im i lar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable w i th in four years f rom the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the forma t ion and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pro- spective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project f rom the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commer- cial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu tu re development. Every pioneer manu- TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO fac tu rer is entitled to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds ( inc lud ing capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after J anu a ry 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and Tobago in an approved project may be repatriated at any time. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the fo l low ing conditions: ( 1) the right will not norma l ly apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project; and (2) when an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made th rough a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the t ime the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement the ir assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must ma in ta in the monthly average of its net fore ign exchange position within a specified quan t i ta t ive ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the M in is ter of Finance ( 1) one party to every trans- action in gold between residents must be an authorized bank, (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank, and ( 3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are per- mitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but impo r ts of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific impo rt licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unref ined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential du ty) or 15 per cent (general d u t y ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferen t ial du ty) or 25 per cent (general du ty ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1978 the spot buy- ing and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.09622 and D 0.09718, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.4014 and D 0.4054, respectively, per US$1. The buying and sell- ing rates of authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce which, in col- laboration with the Central Bank, establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank l or in convertible Tunisian dinars through the Foreign Accounts of residents of those countries. Set- tlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All physical and juridical persons are required to declare their holdings abroad to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of non- resident foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad, and with authorization in the names of Tunisian nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than banknotes), with interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit rates 1 Currencies quoted spot are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In addition, the Central Bank quotes banknote rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan d i rham) and for Belgian francs, CFA francs, Kuwaiti dinars, Mali francs, Qatar riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. Since February 1, 1979 the Central Bank quotes fo rwa rd for deutsche mark, French francs, and U.S. dollars. The forward rates are cal- culated for periods of one month to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and three months for buying rates. 406 applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dinars; all other credit operations require prior authorization, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the payer), for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency f rom the Central Bank. Such currency may be trans- ferred abroad or remitted in Tunisia to the holder of the account or to any other nonresident beneficiary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents without authoriza- tion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a non- resident, with foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Con- vertible Dinars, with authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, with interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange depos- its in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates, and with the pro- ceeds from the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. For- eign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of Tunisian transferable securities, participations in Tuni- sian companies, and the acquisition of real estate. Irre- spective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited freely for living ex- penses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 50 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 1,000 for each family a year. They may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for all taxes and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. They may not be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Furthermore, by December 31, 1979, at the latest, the balances outstanding on May 31, 1975 may be used for the purchase of five-year govern- ment bonds, when the amount utilized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven-year government bonds with funds utilized over and above that amount. Interest payments and repayments on maturing bonds are trans- ferable through an authorized intermediary. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended main- ly for natural persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts requires the ap- proval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be cred- ited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises benefiting f rom certain export incentives, under Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such pro- ceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or Central Bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, por tfo l io management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institu- tions,, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his coun- try of residence) or his fam i ly up to D 50 a person a week and not exceeding D 1,000 a year for any one fam i ly. Physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973, or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Moreover, the balances at May 31, 1975 may be used up to December 31, 1979, for subscription to a government loan (see above). All other debits to these accounts require the authorization of the Central Bank. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian na tu ral or jur id ical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in d inars of convertible foreign currency t rans fe r red by the account holder by check or postal t rans fe r. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, TUNISIA which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods from the former French Franc Area require an import authorization from the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce, and a payments authorization from the Central Bank. Im- ports of nonliberalized goods from other countries re- quire an import license from the Directorate of External Economic Relations and the visa of the Central Bank; when issuing the license, the Directorate of External Economic Relations consults with the appropriate ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country under special procedures, as follows. Certain spare parts and a few other products required for industrial activi- ties may be imported free of license against the presen- tation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer, and imports required by manufacturers for purposes of production or by certain official agencies are licensed under annual import authorization. More- over, manu fac tu r ing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., matches and playing cards. In addition, certain government agencies, principally the Office du Com- merce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities fa l l ing within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, cereals, tobacco, etc.). Imports by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrange- ments applicable to private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, or an import license, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involv- ing payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased f rom the Central Bank for all payments that have received proper and prior authorization. Resident impor- ters are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for fu tu re settlement of their merchandise im- ports, for a maximum term of six months. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu- mented. These include ( 1) various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, and brokerage); (2) payments for process- ing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA interest and amortization arising from authorized con- tractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for publicity expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Na tu ral persons and enterprises produc- ing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their production process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allo- cation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children under ten ); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The allocation for study abroad is D 90 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances ,up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A fore ign national employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of his net wage or salary without limit if his fam i ly is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a max imum of D 150 a month if his fam i ly lives in Tunisia.2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits laid down in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian d inar banknotes or coin is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a max imum of D 100, where the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not, there is no l im i ta t ion on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Nonliberal- ized exports require an export au thor iza t ion when sold to the former French Franc Area and an export license when sold outside that Area. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V in, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office Na t ional de 1'Huile. With the 2 There are special regu la t ions for those employed by nonres ident m a n u f a c t u r i ng en terpr ises covered by Law No. 72-38 and p roduc ing exclusively for export. 408 exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days af ter shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Resident exporters may sell forward for a maximum term of three months, through author- ized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the proceeds f rom their merchandise exports. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts denominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized intermediaries are empowered to grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises approved under Law No. 72-38. Resident manufacturing indus- tries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to credit 2 per cent of their repatriated converti- ble currency export proceeds to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises (i.e., enterprises whose capi- tal is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of convertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt f rom the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived f rom services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the fbrmer French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invis- ibles received from countries outside the former French Franc Area. However, there are certain EFAC facilities (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re- export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a cur- rency declaration upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coin is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to transfer the principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the bene- fits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69- 35) and by Law No. 74-74 on investment in manu- fac tu r ing industry. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or l iqu ida t ion, even if this amount exceeds the amount in i t ia l ly invested in foreign cur- rency plus the earnings on that capital. Fur thermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident m anu f a c tu r ing enterprises, including an exemption f rom the repa t r ia t ion requ irement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tun is ia, subject to prior approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign f inanc ial and bank ing ins t i tu t ions doing business with nonresidents. However, these ins t i tu t ions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident companies upon au thor iza t ion f rom the Central Bank. Such ins t i tu t ions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any of their f u n ds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment and working capital requirements of enterprises in Tunisa. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanen t ly are entitled to the t rans fer of the fo l low ing: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;3 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; and D 10,000 for those who left a f ter December 31, 1974. All capital t rans fe rs by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds f rom inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval f rom nonresidents is free ly transferable. Gold Five commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any fo rm in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require jo int authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Commerce. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of indus tr ial users are eligible to purchase gold f rom the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1978 January 27. Exchange Notice No. 134 of the Minister of Finance empowered authorized banks to pay interest on nonresidents' foreign exchange deposits whenever they could make use of funds so deposited at remunera- tive rates. March 24. The Minister of Agriculture designated the vegetable products that were to be freely importable (Journal Officiel, March 31 ). 3 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. TUNISIA March 25. Customs taxes (taxe speciale de compen- sation), rang ing f rom 5 to 300 per cent, were intro- duced on the c.i.f. value of some 200 items of non- essential imports, including alcoholic beverages, many nonessential food products, wood and paper products, clothing, glass, calculators, television and radio sets, automobiles, and motorcycles. These taxes were addi- tional to import duties. April 14. A notice to importers and exporters was published regarding commerce between Tunisia and Togo under the 1977 trade agreement (Journal Officiel, April 14). April 18. A notice to importers and exporters was published setting out the products that might be traded w i th Cameroon under the 1965 trade agreement as modified by the additional protocol (Journal Officiel, April 18). May 5. A notice to importers listed the commodities that m ight be imported under the terms of the December 1976 and September 1977 loans f rom the Netherlands (Journal Officiel, May 5 ). May 16. Customs duties were suspended on shipments of bananas and apples up to certain weights and on fresh eggs and natural ba r ium (Decree No. 78-477). May 19. Customs duties were suspended on certain photographic and other materials for the printing of books, journals, and newspapers (Decree No. 78-492). May 23. A trade agreement was concluded between Tunisia and Malta (Journal Officiel, May 2 3 ). June 6. A notice to exporters of textile products was published listing the items subject to voluntary restraint when exported to EEC countries in general, and to France and the Benelux countries in particular (Journal Officiel, June 6 ). June 13. A notice to importers listed the commodities that might be imported under the Tunisia-U.S.S.R. economic cooperation agreement of 1976. September 15. A notice to importers listed the com- modities that might be imported under the economic cooperation agreement of 1972 between Tunisia and the People's Republic of China. October 10. A notice to importers listed the com- modities that might be imported under the Tunisia- France agreement regarding French program assistance extended to Tunisia on July 4, 1978. December 22. Exchange Notice No. 135 was pub- lished concerning the provision of forward exchange cover by the Central Bank. (These arrangements came into effect on February 1, 1979.) December 22. A notice to importers listed the com- modities that might be imported under the terms of the Netherlands loan of June 30, 1978. December 28. Articles 24 and 25 of Law No. 78-59 extended until December 31, 1979 the application of Law No. 76-52 of May 12, 1976, authorizing the issue by the Government of a loan reserved for holders of Capital Accounts. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on January 1, 1979) Exchange Rate System The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy by which exchange rates for the lira are adjusted f rom time to time. On December 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 25.00 and LT 25.50, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Turkey also establishes f rom time to t ime official buy ing and selling rates for 15 other foreign currencies.1 The Central Bank announced that with effect f rom September 20, 1978 quoted rates for these currencies would be ad jus ted on a weekly basis, whenever any quoted rate deviates by more than 2.25 per cent f rom its cross rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar in in terna t ional markets. Such regular ad jus tmen ts were discontinued in late October 1978, and had not been resumed by December 31, 1978. With effect from March 1, 1978 a tax of 50 per cent applies to the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad by Turkish nationals. While all exchange transactions, in c lud ing the con- version of export earnings, in principle, take place at current exchange rates, exporters can choose to sell their export proceeds at a rate other than that which prevails on the date of the surrender transactions, i.e., on the dates of export licensing, registration, or customs declaration. In practice, since March 1, 1978, the current exchange rate is applied to remittances by Turkish workers resident abroad. Formally, however, the legislation perm i t t ing interest payments on such remittances remains in effect. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Commerce, which also prepares the import pro- grams. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports, including commodities on liberalized list II, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Commerce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Indus t ry) according to the instruc- tions of the Ministry of Commerce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 410 of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements w i th Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Romania and w i th the other members of the Regional Coopera- t ion for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in con- vertible currencies. Proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe3 must be received in the currency of a coun try in this group. Nonresidents as well as residents are permitted to open demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Turk ish liras bearing an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Capital, below). In addi- t ion, Turkish citizens working abroad may open foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank of Turkey denominated in any convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are prohibited, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within six months. In exceptional cases, the validity of import licenses is extended by six months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state economic enter- prises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce before subm i t t ing applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when g ran t ing such certificates. Exporters, mine opera- tors, shipowners, bu i ld ing contractors who have under- taken the construction of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manufacturers are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate 2 A lban ia and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Albania is inoperative. Paymen ts with Portugal are channeled th rough a special account, but Turkey does not consider Portugal to be a bilateral par tner country. 8 Austria, Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Ne ther lands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tour- ism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro- visions of import programs which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two categories: (1) An annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (lists I and I I ). There are no limits as to either value or quan t i ty of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely and applications for import licenses for goods on the liberal- ized lists may be submitted at any time to authorized banks, which transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government department is required. (2) A list of goods subject to global quotas published annua l ly. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements;4 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. Certain imports from mem- ber countries of the EEC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the EEC and these are free of quantitative restriction; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for indus tr ia l is ts, which are allo- cated twice a year. Imports on the quota list are sub- divided into two broad categories, depend ing on whether they do or do not require a perm it from a specified pub- lic body. Foreign exchange allocations for all quota imports within the quantitative l im it established for each quota item are made by the Ministry of Commerce. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manu fac tu red domestically or that local supplies are inadequate as to either quantity or qua l i ty; this certificate is issued by the Ministry of Indus try and Technology. Registered importers have to submit their applications for goods not requiring a perm it through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce during the first two months of each semester. The Ministry of Commerce issues a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for four months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank w i th in this period. Appli- 4 When p e rm i t t ing impo r ts of goods on the liberalized or quo ta lists f rom coun t r ies o ther th an the paymen ts ag reement coun t r ies or member coun t r ies of the O rgan iza t ion for Economic Cooperation and Develop- men t, the M in is try of Commerce takes into account the balance of t rade and paymen ts w i th these countries. TURKEY cations for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Commerce in April and September of each year. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body by importers and by industrialists. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank within the period of validity of the exchange allocation. The import license, in principle, permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Pay- ments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). For payment against letters of credit or documents, all importers (with the exception of government depart- men ts) are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are transferred to the Central Bank by the authorized bank within five days. If pre- payments are not made within five days, penalty pay- ments equivalent to a certain ratio of the total value of imports are required, as follows: 5 per cent, if prepay- ments are made within the following five days, and an additional 1 per cent a day up to a maximum period of 60 days, with a maximum rate of 50 per cent. For payment against goods, the local currency counterpart has to be deposited within two months from the date of customs clearance. Importers are formally required to make the foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and w i th in two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Since March 1977, how- ever, the Central Bank has limited foreign exchange paymen ts for imports to raw materials and other essen- tial commodities. Beginning late in 1976, large arrears of payments for imports have emerged. There is also a large amount of outstanding applications with the Cen- tral Bank for authorization of letters of credit. The local currency counterparts both of these applications and of the arrears have been deposited with the Central Bank and are being held in a special account. Exchange rate adjustments for officially quoted currencies entail changes in required import deposits. Importers are required to increase their deposits in the special account or they may receive reimbursement f rom the special account in the following cases: ( 1) when foreign exchange has been sold to the importer but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no foreign exchange has been sold and the goods have not yet been cleared by customs, and ( 3) when no foreign exchange has been sold but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods f rom these countries is the same as for imports under 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. The financing through acceptance credits with a minimum maturity of 180 days is permitted for certain imports, including all import requirements of industrial- ists. Turkish banks have been requested to use half of their total acceptance credit financing for imports of petroleum and fertilizers. In principle, commercial banks have to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit financing from their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can apply at the Central Bank for the transfer of foreign exchange but, as a consequence, lose the right to carry out f u t u re accept- ance credit operations. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 30 per cent of the value of the merchandise and for items on list II, 15 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import application is payable for goods on importers' quotas, and 2.5 per cent for industrialists' quotas.5 For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonpayments agreement country. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible currency countries only, or on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in con- form i ty with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corresponding to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the Ministry of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangements for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of manu fac tu res' and industrial and m in ing products who are entitled to foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 25 per cent of exports for their own import needs or the import needs of their subcontractors. Exporters are entitled to 5 For fe r t i l ize r s, ammon ia, breeding animals, and certain products on liberalized list II and the global quotas, the rate is 1 per cent. For materials used for sh ipbu i ld ing, repa ir, and modification carried out w i th in the coun t ry, and for the cons truc t ion of sh ipyards, the ra te is 0.1 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 25,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the ra te is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 50,000. 412 use these foreign exchange earnings for payments for goods up to twice the amount of inputs imported under the "cash against goods" scheme. Furthermore, manu- facturers who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee exports of a specific value, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to finance their import needs, up to 50 per cent of the value of the export orders in hand or 50 per cent of their export commitment. They are subject to the condition that they will repay the external credits out of their export earnings within one year from the date of the import of their production inputs. The Government provides manufacturers with foreign exchange conversion authori- zations f rom the Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are en- titled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equiva- lent to 1 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a limit of US$50,000. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain condi- tions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery up to a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of LT 6,000, Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instruments and machines, by per- sons who have resided abroad for employment or study; these vary with the length of stay abroad and with the transfer of foreign exchange to Turkey. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or family use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their opera- tions. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Imports of automobiles,6 tractors, or professional machinery, etc., without payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale of foreign exchange to authorized banks in Turkey. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allo- cation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who had imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey 6 Automobiles are not included in the import program. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain condi- tions, but these must be exported af ter three years; how- ever, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organi- zations. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: ( 1) a customs sur- charge (municipal tax) of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 22.5 per cent or 25 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of commodity;7 (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging generally from 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs sur- charge, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, pro- vided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including ship- ping costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' pay- ments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural na ture) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens may not leave the country without obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to one trip a person every three years, and one trip a person a 7 The stamp du ty is 100 per cent for imports made by special permis- sion but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. TURKEY year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 per cent is applied to the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals traveling abroad. The allowance for tourism is the equivalent of either a minimum of US$300 or a maxi- mum of US$500. Exchange for business travel is granted up to an annual maximum limit of US$2,500, individual limits being determined in accordance with the taxable income of the applicant firm; for businessmen in export- ing businesses the limit is related to the export proceeds of their firms. Exchange for travel abroad for other pur- poses (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, and athletic meets, and personal busi- ness) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the neces- sary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT1,000 in Turkish banknotes and coin. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert liras into foreign cur- rency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previ- ously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports destined to bilateral countries, exports of the commodi- ties listed in the appendix of the export program,8 re-exports irrespective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Most other exports need to be regis- tered. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of prices in domestic and foreign markets. Exports of goods subject neither to registration nor to license may be effected freely. The prices of exports to free trade areas or to duty- f ree shops abroad are approved ex post at the time the goods are delivered or at the time of sale. Such exports require an export permit issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Transit trade items are not subject to price controls, although the purchase price and any commis- sion earned must be brought into Turkey. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export on three-year credit terms, however, against payment in convertible currency and subject to a bank guarantee. While all export proceeds, in principle, are converted at current exchange rates, exporters receive from a special 8 Cereals, certain minerals such as molybdenum, wolfram, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, fer t i l izers, cattle, meat, timber, and paper. (However, this list may be changed whenever the export regime is renewed.) 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY account in the Central Bank the difference between the exchange rate at the time of export licensing, registra- tion, or customs declaration and the current exchange rate if the d ifference is in their favor. Forward sales may be made only when payment is to be received f rom the free currency area; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indi- rect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or industrial products are exported. The rates of rebate range from 5 per cent to 35 per cent of export value. Other tax refunds apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries. Other tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings from income and corporation taxes and the exemption of export goods from production tax. Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates from a Special Export Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi- dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Foreign travelers wish- ing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. International transit through Turkey by road is sub- ject to a foreign exchange conversion requirement equivalent to US$300 for each transport unit without any claim to reconversion.9 The import of Turkish banknotes and coin by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 1,000. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Subject to specific permission issued by the Ministry of Finance residents may acquire foreign securities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum 9 This requirement was abolished in March 1979. 414 Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and con- tractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey, but special facilities exist for borrowing from the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferable under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sale proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property, and for living expenses of up to LT 15,000 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 10,000 for certain relatives. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following condi- tions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' investment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits have to be blocked again and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution before the transfer date established under the Agree- ment, except for investment in the export industries or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferential treatment. All or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural na tu re) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential treatment. Foreign investments out- side the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor does not enjoy any transfer facilities for earnings or liquida- tion proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition by Turkish citizens working abroad of Turkish shares and bonds. Nonresidents and Turkish nationals working abroad may open demand and time accounts with commercial banks in convertible Turkish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank. Interest rates on these funds must not exceed the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by more than 2.25 per cent. However, the exchange rate guarantee is limited to the stock of deposits existing on March 1, 1978, including overdue deposits and rollovers, provided they are for a m in imum period of one year. In addition, authorized banks with deposits exceeding LT 2 billion are permitted to incur an overall fore ign exchange position (in cur- rencies purchased and sold by the Central B ank) of up to US$20 million. During 1978 arrears developed in respect of repayments of ma tu r ing convertible Turkish lira deposits. With the exception of borrowing by the Government from foreign governments or government agencies and f rom international institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total TURKEY amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad from private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is the respon- sibility of the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the prevailing domestic interest rate. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that, with certain exceptions, the maturity of such credits must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the LIBOR rate by more than 2.25 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for m in t ing by the State Mint. Gold may be im- ported freely, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1978 January 24. The stamp duty on imports was raised f rom 9 or 9.5 per cent to 22.5 or 25 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of commodity. February 16. The list of goods that could be imported w i th acceptance credit financing was reduced. February 18. Foreign exchange allowances for busi- ness travel were reduced by 50 per cent with the excep- tion of those available to exporters of goods and services. March 1. There were several changes in foreign exchange controls. The regulations for imports without foreign exchange allocation ("imports with waiver") were tightened; all exchange rate guaran tees were abol- ished w i th the exception of the stock of convertible lira deposits existing as of March 1, including overdue deposits and rollovers, provided they were for a m in imum period of one year; the foreign exchange allowance for travel abroad was reduced to US$500 a person for two calendar years; a tax of 50 per cent was introduced on the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals trave l ing abroad; the privilege of na tural persons and legal entities domiciled abroad to receive up to 50 per cent of their convertible Turkish lira deposits for imports of goods for their own production needs was abolished; and the "cash against goods" import scheme was limited to imports of industrialists. March 1. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 25.00 buying and LT 25.50 selling, per 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY US$1. The separate rate for workers' remittances became inoperative. Importers who had already received foreign exchange were requested to increase their deposits within 15 days. Importers who had yet to receive foreign exchange were given three months to augment their deposits or to withdraw their deposits and applications for foreign exchange transfers. March 2. Export tax rebates on manufactures and processed agricultural products were reduced by 20 per- centage points and export tax rebates for raw cotton, tobacco, and some other agricultural products were abolished. April 30. A special Export Encouragement Fund was established in the Central Bank to meet the preferential foreign exchange entitlements of exporters of manu- factures and mining products established in November 1977. For this purpose the fund would be allocated 25 per cent of receipts from industrial and mineral exports. (In November 1978, in order to simplify administrative procedures, banks were permitted to retain this portion of export receipts.) May 23. The time period during which importers who already received foreign exchange were required to increase their import deposits following the depreciation of the Turkish lira was lengthened three to ten months (see entry for March 1, above). The amounts due were to be paid in equal monthly installments. July 6. It was announced that exporters would be entitled to use their foreign exchange earnings for the payment of up to twice the amount of inputs imported under the "cash against goods" system to sustain their export and domestic production and the production needs of their subcontractors. July 6. Export tax rebates on manufactures and pro- cessed agricultural products were raised by 10 percentage points. July 6. It was announced that exporters would be entitled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 1 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a limit of US$50,000. Hotels and restaurants were permitted smaller priority allocations. July 28. Turkish nationals working abroad were per- mitted, for a period of six months, to buy with foreign exchange, for which there was no repatriation obliga- tion, one domestically produced car, truck, or tractor without having to enter the waiting list for the purchase of these items. If they were to exercise this option they would, however, lose eligibility for imports without foreign exchange application ("imports with waiver") for a period of five years. The manufac turers of the cars, trucks, and tractors sold under this scheme would be entitled to preferential allocations in respect of the foreign exchange received. July. Manufacturers with export orders in hand, who were prepared to guarantee exports of their goods up to a specific value, were allowed to arrange for credits 416 abroad for up to 50 per cent of the value of the export orders in hand or 50 per cent of their guaranteed export commitment in order to finance their import require- ments. These arrangements were subject to the condition that they would repay out of their export earnings the export credits they might have arranged, within one year from the date of the import of their production inputs. September 20. The Central Bank announced that henceforth quoted rates for foreign currencies (other than the U.S. dollar) would be changed on a weekly basis, whenever any quoted rate deviated by more than 2.25 per cent from its cross rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar in international markets. (These adjustments were dis- continued on October 22, 1978.) September 30. A special fund of US$60 million was established for the importation of inputs for industrial production. October 4. Industrialists facing serious import bottle- necks were entitled to use acceptance credits for goods not on the list of items eligible for acceptance credit financing, provided that they could arrange a minimum maturity of one year. October 4. Banks were required to use half of their acceptance credit financing for imports of petroleum and fertilizers, and to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit financing from their own resources. In principle, banks could still apply to the Central Bank for the foreign exchange, but if they did so they would lose their entitlement to carry out accept- ance credit operations in the future. November 10. The regulations in respect of profits and losses arising from foreign exchange transactions, import deposits, and the conversion of export proceeds were revised. A special account established in the Cen- tral Bank would be used for the absorption of profits and reimbursement of losses of the commercial banks resulting from adjustments of the exchange rates for officially quoted currencies and in required import deposits. Importers would be required to increase their deposits or they would receive reimbursements in the following cases: (1) when foreign exchange had been sold to the importer but the goods had not yet been imported; (2) when no foreign exchange had been sold and the goods had not yet been cleared by customs; and ( 3) when no foreign exchange had been sold and the goods had been cleared by customs. While all export proceeds would be converted at current exchange rates, exporters would receive from the special account the difference between the exchange rate at the time of export licensing, registration, or customs declaration and the current exchange rate if the difference were in the exporter's favor. December 31. With effect from January 1, 1979, use of the foreign exchange allowance of US$500 a person for travel abroad would be reduced to once every three calendar years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at U Sh 9.6600 = SDR 1. Uganda applies margins of not more than 1 per cent in terms of the fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the SDR. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The mid-rate of the Uganda shilling for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined by the Bank of Uganda on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buy- ing and selling rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are determined on the basis of the appropriate cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the New York market on the previous day. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York, except for Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward with customers in ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export con- tract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. With Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda formed part of the East African Community, but after the Community was effectively dissolved, early in 1977, Uganda now treats residents of Kenya and Tanzania on the same basis as all other nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Prescription of Currency All payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected through U.S. dollar accounts held with banks abroad. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency except 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited free ly for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Non transferab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable begin- ning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export trans- actions. All Blocked Accounts must be held with the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are controlled through foreign exchange allocations and import licensing. A Cabinet Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance, meets fortnightly and makes block allocations of foreign exchange on a ministry-by-ministry basis. The Bank of Uganda informs the Committee of the availability of foreign exchange, while the Industrial Assessment Committee makes recommendations on import requirements for the industrial sector. On the basis of these recommendations a minimum guaranteed amount of foreign exchange is made available for the importation of industrial raw materials and spare parts. Import licenses, which are required for all imports, are issued to individual importers by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade (UABT), operating under the super- vision of the Ministry of Commerce. For imports of industrial and commercial goods, the UABT also dis- tributes among individual importers allocations of for- eign exchange to the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Commerce. With regard to imports of the 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA goods that fall under the jurisdiction of other ministries, each ministry directly concerned apportions the foreign exchange allocated to it; in such cases, the UABT issues licenses automatically. Upon approval of the applica- tion, the importer must deposit with the UABT a commission of 1 per cent of the amount of the license. Imports normally must be purchased directly f rom the country of origin. Imports of some manufac tured goods from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Import payments normally are made under letters of credit opened in the name of the UABT for the account of the importer; the latter generally must make fu ll pay- ment to the authorized bank before the letter of credit is opened. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months from the date of payment. Since early 1977 a certain amount of foreign exchange has been set aside each month to liquidate payments arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 3,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in travelers checks. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Kenya and Tanzania, for which holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person a year normally are available, and Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their over- seas leave. Foreign exchange is not released for nursery, pri- mary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, non- national missionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to 33^ per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim divi- dends. The export of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tan- zania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require licenses and may be 418 restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta- tion and sold to an authorized bank against Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank- notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an author- ized depositary, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings. A further transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anni- versary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or be held on deposit with the Uganda Commercial Bank; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is transferable during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; to secure guaranteed repatriation, however, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964, as amended by the Foreign Invest- ments Decree, 1977; in normal circumstances approved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and distrib- uted by companies operating in Uganda are, in principle, transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by non- residents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange con- trol approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in Uganda which is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 2978) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 per cent around the official rate. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Currency Board publishes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.8360 and Dh 3.8400, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Board sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; in practice, however, their quotations for the U.S. dollar are close to those announced by the Currency Board. Rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the previous day's closing rates in New York as well as the international quotations elsewhere in the Gulf area and in the Far East. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchas.es or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap facility at the Currency Board which the commercial banks may use to purchase or sell d i rhams forward for periods of one to three months. Max imum limits of US$20 million ou ts tand ing for each bank and, of US$5 million in purchases a day, are in effec t. The swap fac i l i ty is also used to in f luence the availability of dirhams to the bank ing system. There is an agreement between the United Arab Emirates, Bahra in, and Qatar whereby, for the con- venience of travelers, notes denominated in U.A.E. d irhams, Bahra in dinars, and Qatar riyals are inter- changeable at the fixed rates of Dh 1 = BD 0.1 = QR 1. The United A rab Emirates fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requ iremen ts for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where requ ired, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. There are no b i la teral paymen ts agreements. No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are imports of products manufac tured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodi- ties may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodity or commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made free ly, except to Israel and South Africa. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported freely, without an export license, to any other destina- t ion. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements governing receipts from current invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Transactions and settlements involving Israel, South A f r ica, and companies blacklisted by the Arab League, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold 1 The seven fede ra ted states of the Un i ted A rab Em i ra tes are Abu Dhabi, Duba i, Sha r jah, A jm a n, Umm al Qa iwa in, Ras al Kha imah, and Fu j a i r ah. With the exception noted below, residents and non- residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any fo rm, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be unde r taken only by licensed parties. Transactions involving Israel, South Africa, or blacklisted companies are prohibited. Gold bullion is exempt from import du ty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1978 January 28. The U.A.E. dirham was revalued by 0.5 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar. March 12. The U.A.E. dirham was pegged to the SDR, at the rate of Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1, with margins of 2.25 per cent, retroactive to Janua ry 28, 1978. The U.S. dollar was designated as the intervention currency, and the Currency Board continued to buy and sell U.S. dollars at the rates set on Janua ry 28, 1978. August 15. The margins around the SDR —dirham rate were widened to 7.25 per cent. September 14. The U.A.E. dirham was fur ther reval- ued by 0.5 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar. October 26. The U.A.E. dirham was again revalued by 0.5 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets, except for currencies ma in ta in ing a fixed rela- tionship with sterling. However, the authorities inter- vene when necessary in order to smooth out disruptive fluctuations in the exchange rates. The closing selling and buy ing rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1978 were US$2.0400 and US$2.0420, respectively, per £1. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, except Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the influ- ence of market forces; transactions with resident cus- tomers may be entered into only for approved purposes, where there is an underlying commercial contract (or where an exporter is tendering for an overseas export contract), and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market (referred to as the investment currency market) in which certain foreign currency proceeds,1 resulting mainly f rom the sale outside the Scheduled Territories (the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Republic of Ireland,2 and Gibraltar) of foreign currency securities held for port- folio investment purposes,3 and of most personal resi- dential property situated outside the Scheduled Terri- tories may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a prem ium over the official market; at the end of 1978, that premium was 42.7 per cent calculated at the ruling U.S. dollar rate in the official exchange market, the middle closing rate on December 29 being <£! = US$2.0410. These funds are normally available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities, for approved purchases of personal residential property in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, and, although little used for this purpose, for approved direct investments in non- Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. 1 Under the U.K. exchange control regulations, fore ign currency comprises all currencies other than the currencies of the United King- dom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. 2 The U.K. regulations refer to Ireland as the Republic of Ireland, and for the purpose of this survey the U.K. usage is being followed. 3 The term "foreign currency securities" is generally to be read as meanins securities payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country other than the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and G ibra l tar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to fore ign cur- rency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Sterling securities are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency. The term "securities" includes certificates of deposit and treasury bills. 422 The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coin (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory In general, the United Kingdom does not impose restrictions on exchange transactions or payments and receipts between residents of the United Kingdom and residents of the Scheduled Territories. Exchange control applies mainly to transactions with residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories. For administrative purposes, the non-Scheduled Territories are divided as follows: (1) the other member countries of the EEC, except the Republic of Ireland; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Territories;4 (3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries, usually referred to as the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is admin- istered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requiring exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Depart- ment of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency Receipts f rom Scheduled Territories may be obtained in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; those from other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, must be in sterling f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Territories 4 The OSA thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, British V irg in Islands,, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, Guy an a, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Maur i t ius and Dependencies, Nau ru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South A f r ica, South West A f r ica (Nam ib ia ), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuva lu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; payments to other countries, w i th the excep- tion of Rhodesia, may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regu- lations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circum- stances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Stand- ard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due f rom persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; authorized pay- ments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, w i th the specific approval of the Bank of Eng land, in sterling f rom the Rhodes ian Special Accoun t. Persons no rma l ly resident in Rhodesia who are l iv ing tempo ra r i ly in the United K ingdom as s tuden ts or workers may open Temporary Resident Accoun ts in s ter l ing with au thor- ized banks in the Un i ted K ingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for l iv ing expenses w i th in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for t ran s fe rs between Scheduled Territories no U.K. exchange control permission is required; for paymen ts to other coun t r ies by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the au thor ized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control au thor i ty in the terr i tory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, Temporary Res ident Accounts, and the Rhodes ian Special Account (see below), the sterling accoun ts of nonres iden ts w i th au thor ized banks in the United K ingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th author- ized paymen ts by residents of Scheduled Territories, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other External Accoun ts, w i th the proceeds f rom sales of gold or fo re ign cu r rency other than Rhodes ian currency ( in c lud ing bankno tes ), and w i th s te r l ing bankno tes ma i led f rom ou t s ide the Sched- uled Territories. Ex ternal Accoun ts may be debited, sub ject to general or special perm iss ion, for paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Territories; for t rans fe rs to other External Accoun ts; for t r an s f e rs to Rhodes ian Accounts other than in payment for c e r t a in goods exported f rom Rhodesia, prov ided that the bank has no UNITED KINGDOM reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order, 1968; for payments in cash in the United Kingdom; and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including bank- notes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers f rom External Accounts, under the circum- stances described above; payments by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the discount or maturity proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports f rom Rhodesia which have entered customs in the United K ingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annu i t ies where associated with the deceased husband's emp loymen t, (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Malawi, Rhodesia, or Zambia, (8) ma tur i ty proceeds of certain endowment insurance policies, and (9) expenditure in gathering news material. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annu i t ies; paymen ts for living expenses in the United K ingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their fam i l ie s; authorized purchases of U.K. sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the Un i ted Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Territories for (1) interest on and repayment of out- s tand ing personal loans, advances, and overdraf ts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trade- marks, and royalties, (3) distributions f rom Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and paymen ts to U.K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United K ingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educa t ional expenses, (d) insurance pre- m iums and capital and annu i ty payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) g i f ts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one paymen t, to ind iv idua ls and religious, med ica l, educa t iona l, and charitable organizations, and subsc r ip t ions to such organ iza t ions, (g) con tr ibu t ions to pension f u n ds provided the person was a member of the f u nd before November 11, 1965 or before tak ing up residence in Rhodesia a f ter that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Payments in respect of educational and medical expenses in Rhodesia also are permitted. T rans fe rs between Rhodesian Accounts and from 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not nor- mally allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the moneys in question, (2) used within specified limits for living expenses in the United King- dom of residents of Rhodesia and certain other personal payments, or (3) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U.K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is given for residents of Rhodesia to use funds in Suspense Accounts to purchase U.K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. Treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Per- mission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian or foreign currency securities, however, when the f u n ds for the purchase are derived from the immed ia te sale proceeds of other Rhodesian or foreign currency securi- ties, respectively. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office s taff in London and ma in ta ined with the Standard Bank, London. Pen- sions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodes ia f rom residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and pensions due f rom Rhodesia to residents of the United K ingdom, the Republic of Ire land, and most parts of the OSA are norma l ly settled through this account. Corresponding t rans fe rs f rom Rhodes ian Accoun ts in the names of ind iv idua ls to the Rhodes ian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not norma l ly given for paymen ts of any other n a t u re to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Accoun t. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of Eng land, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet educa t ional payments in the United K ingdom, the cost of pe rm i t ted exports to Rhodesia f rom the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Terri- tories and the OSA for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes countries outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia5 are divided the ACP Area,6 into 12 groups: the CEFTA 5 All goods f r om Rhodesia are subject to l icens ing control and licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted. 0 The ACP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Ben in, Bo tswana, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cen tral A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equa to r ial G u i n e a, E th iop ia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gam- bia, G h a n a, G r e n a d a, Gu in e a, Gu inea -B issau, G u y a n a, Ivory Coast, J am a i c a, Kenya, Lesotho, L ibe r ia, Madagasca r, Ma law i, Mali, Mau r i- t a n i a, M a u r i t i u s, N ige r, N iger ia, Papua New Gu inea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and P r inc ipe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Su r in am e, Swaz i land, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Za i re, and Zambia. 424 Area,7 the Community Area,8 the Dollar Area,9 the Far Eastern and Western Area,10 Japan, the Mediterranean Area,11 the OCT Area,12 Romania, the State Trading Area,13 the Residual Textile Area,14 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods,15 most imports f rom countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General Import License without restric- tion, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1978: (1) from all countries, four commodities or groups of commodities;16 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the non-CEFTA coun- tries only, one commodity; (4) f rom Romania only, one group of commodities; and (5) from the State Trading Area only, ten commodities or groups of commodities. Ind iv idual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain in fo rm a t ion. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poul- try meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced 7 The CEFTA Area comprises Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (Wes t), Iceland, Repub l ic of I re land, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, No rway, Po r tuga l, Sweden, and Switzerland. 8 The Commun i ty Area comprises all EEC member states. 9 The Dollar A rea comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Hondu ra s, L ibe r ia, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, Philippines, United S ta tes, and Venezuela. 10 The Far Eas tern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, J ap an, New Zea land, and United States. 11 The Med i te r ranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egyp t, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Ma l ta, Morocco, Spain, Tun is ia, and Turkey. 13 The OCT A rea comprises Belize, British An tarc t ic Territory, British I n d i an Ocean Te r r i to ry, Br i t ish V i rg in Islands, B rune i, Cayman Islands, F a l k l a nd I s lands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and A n t a r c t ic Lands, G i lbe rt Is lands, Mayo t te, Mon tserra t, Netherlands An t i l les (A r u b a, Bonaire, Curacao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten, and S ab a ), New Ca ledon ia and Dependencies, New Hebrides, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. P ierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Is lands, Tuva lu, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and West Indies Assoc ia ted S ta tes (A n t i g u a, Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and St. Ch r is tophe r -Nev is -Angu i l la ). 13 The S ta te T rad ing Area comprises Albania, Bu lgar ia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and Ber l in (E a s t ), Hung a ry, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 14 The Res idual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories o th er t h an A l g e r i a, A rgen t ina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Republic of China, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indo- nes ia, I r an, Jo rdan, Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, N i c a r agu a, P ak i s t an, P a r agu ay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Republic, Tha i land, U ruguay, Yugoslavia, and those com- p r i s ing the ACP A rea, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western A rea, the Med i te r ranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading A rea. 15 The res t r ic t ions on textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Au s t r a l i a, Canada, New Zea land, or the United States. 10 Cocoa and cocoa prepara t ions from all sources requ ire a specific l icense to ensu re compliance w i th the In terna t ional Cocoa Agreement. The sk ins of cer ta in ra re animals, most p r ima ry whale products and a n um b er of other w i ld l i fe products, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoise shell, and plumage, also cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropr ia te department. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agr icu l tura l, hor t icu l tura l, and livestock products are subject to EEC regulations. Once import licensing requirements have been met, U.K. residents may purchase foreign currency, other than Rhodesian currency, or credit sterling to an Exter- nal Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence is provided that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of Eng land where the pay- ment is considered necessary or conforms to customary practice. Current adm in is tra t ive practice is not to allow advance payments for consumer goods. Exchange con- trol forms are not required for paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Territories; neither are they requ ired for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment represents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £5,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before mak ing the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sched- uled Territories may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rhodesia)17 is granted freely for most purposes, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control fo rm is required for payments exceeding <£ 1,000 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are per- m i t ted to approve applications for transfers on account of m a ny categories of current invisibles without any l im i ta t ion, and for other categories up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these l im i ts or for purposes for which no delegation of au tho r i ty has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unau thor ized capital out- flow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay- ment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories (except to Rhodesia), U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equivalent of <£500 a person a trip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £100 a day u p - to a max imum of 17 V i r tua l ly all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result f rom perm i t ted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardship and to remittances of a con t inu ing n a tu re by charitable, religious, medical, and educa t ional organizations for both cu r rent purposes or to meet capital expenditure in the educational and medical fields. Small personal g if ts are also permitted. UNITED KINGDOM £3,000 for any one jou rney can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for additional amounts for bona fide travel purposes are approved by the Bank of England. The cost of accom- modation, fares, etc., can be paid for w i thout limit in the United Kingdom. Travel exchange purchased in the United K ingdom must norma l ly be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrangements agreed w i th certain banks tv»r- sonal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purpc up to £50 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resident travelers may take oi</ up to £500 in foreign currency notes. Any unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency may be retained for a period of one mon th f rom the date of r e tu rn to the Un i ted Kingdom. Banks have au tho r i ty to approve applications by U.K. residents who wish to open fore ign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel f u n ds for use dur ing their stay abroad. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months from the da te of issue or for one mon th f rom the date of re tu rn to the United Kingdom, if later. In add i t ion, resident travelers may take w i th them up to £100 in U.K. and other Scheduled Territory bankno tes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man may take out any amount. Visitors to the United King- dom are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £100 expressed in the currencies of the Un i ted King- dom or the Republic of Ireland. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appro- priate documentary evidence of the amoun ts due, appli- cations to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all incidental expenses arising from the education of U.K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of foreign currency at a rate of up to £ 10 a day with a maximum of £300. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are normally issued only for the permitted exceptions, such as medical and educational supplies, foods tu f fs in special human i tar ian circumstances, and newsfilm, photographs, and printed matter (not more than 70 years old), and for equipment for the essential replacement needs of - the Rhodesian Railways, the Wankie Colliery, and the Central Afr ican Power Corpo- ration. Virtually all exports to other destinations are free of export control and no exchange control forms 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM are normally required. Exporters to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must normally obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment; special exchange control permission to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months with- out cover from the Export Credits Guarantee Depart- ment (ECGD). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision) or. permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities held for portfolio invest- ment purposes and the sale of personal residential prop- erty situated outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given)18-19 for the purchase of marketable foreign currency securities, the purchase of personal residential property outside the Scheduled Ter- ritories, or the making of approved direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories; they may also sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purposes. If permission is not forthcoming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. In certain circumstances, residents of the United Kingdom who possess the nationality or citizenship of a country outside the Sched- uled Territories or, in some cases, who are former residents of OSA countries but do not possess such nationality or citizenship may be granted exemption from certain of their obligations under the Exchange 18 Where currency is received f rom the sale of residential real estate by residents of other Scheduled Territories, permission may also be given for such f u n ds to be regarded as investment currency. 19 The full amount of the foreign currency proceeds is normally per- mitted to be sold as investment currency when the whole of a residential property that has been held for private use is sold; when it has been held as an investment, however, the proceeds are not normally eligible to be treated as investment currency. 426 Control Act in respect of assets denominated in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial ownership of residents of other Scheduled Territories. All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Each indi- vidual resident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts or personal loans not exceeding a total of <£ 1,500, or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to residents of any non-Scheduled Territory except Rhodesia. In addition, there is a fu r ther allowance of £1,500 a donor a calen- dar year to recipients in EEC countries. Further amounts may be allowed under appropriate circumstances, for example, by way of a dowry. Allowances for cash gifts are noncumulative and are not transferable from one resident to another. A resident of the United Kingdom with dependents who are established residents of coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rho- desia may make payments from his own resources not exceeding £2,000 a calendar year to support those dependents. Such payments, which may be gifts or loans, are outside the cash g ift scheme and do not prejudice the normal cash g i ft allowances. No capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means, except to relatives, or other Rhodesian residents where humani- tarian reasons are given, to the extent of .£75 during any period of two years. For direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories, other than Rhodesia, official exchange is normally made available only for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U.K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the invest- ment within 18 months (three years for direct investment in other EEC countries) and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign currency receipts that would not take place without the investment. For such projects ("super- criterion" projects), official exchange may be made available up to £250,000 (£500,000 for direct invest- ment in other EEC countries) or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export without payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade of U.K. manu- facture forming an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company on appropriate terms, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Direct investment other than for "super-criterion" projects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fa ll directly upon the U.K. official foreign exchange reserves until an equivalent amount has been received in the United Kingdom by way of benefits arising from the investments; such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export without pay- ment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade of U.K. manu fac tu re forming an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company on appropriate terms, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. The permitted proportion of retained foreign currency earn ings normally is one third of net earn ings after taxes, applied, if desired, on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is involved. Applicants for per- mission to make an ou tward direct investment are requ ired to provide details of estimated benefits follow- ing the proposed investment. If the "super-criterion" is to be considered, details of benefits received du r ing the prev ious year are required, together w i th ha lf-year ly figures for the ensuing 18 months (annual figures for the ensiling three years in the case of investments in other EEC countries) and conf irma t ion that benefits are expected to con t inue thereaf ter. In add i t ion, investors seeking permission to repay foreign currency borrow ings taken to finance ou tward direct investments are expected to show, where possible, that the benefits received derive f rom the par t icu lar in jec t ion of capital financed by the foreign currency borrowing be ing repa id. The purchase outside the Scheduled Territories of marke tab le foreign currency securities for po r t fo l io inves tment must be financed either with inves tment currency or w i th fo re ign currency bo r row ing. Such bo r row ing is freely pe rm i t ted when unde r taken by or th rough U.K. professional security managers. Foreign currency loans taken up to purchase quo ted securities issued by the EEC, the European Inves tment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty, and the European Atomic Energy Commun i ty may be repaid w i th official exchange over a five-year period. Purchases of marke t- able foreign currency securities w i th inves tment currency are f ree ly permitted by v i r tue of cer ta in general permis- sions gran ted to banks, stockbrokers, and other author- ized depositaries. Purchases f rom other res iden ts may also be effected with sterling on the Stock Exchange (sterling prices reflect the p reva i l ing inves tment currency premium). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or an apartment for personal use in coun t r ies outside the Scheduled Territories requ ires specific approval and must be made either f rom another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory UNITED KINGDOM currency, or from a nonresident of the Scheduled Ter- ritories with investment currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. (As an excep- tion to this rule, residents temporarily employed in member countries of the EEC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommodation at current official market rates of exchange.) Approval is normally limited to one property a family; purchases of investment currency are normally limited to reasonable amounts and may be made before exchange control approval is received, provided that the funds are held by an author- ized depositary and that a formal application is lodged to purchase the property within six months. The approval authority for amounts up to £30,000 for a residential property has been delegated to authorized banks. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or m a tu r i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct invest- ments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories other than residents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official market rate of exchange. Payments to non- resident beneficiaries, other than Rhodesian residents, are au thor ized freely in respect of inheritances due f rom the estates of deceased residents; capital payments under l i fe and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies are also authorized freely. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the in ten t ion of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to transfer the ir assets are, on their departure f rom the United K ingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sched- uled Territory na t iona ls or citizens, other than Rhode- sians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom re tu rn to take up residence in any country outside the Scheduled Territories) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official market rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia are allowed on departure to t ran s fer for a fam i ly un it up to £40,000 (£80,000 for emigration to ano ther EEC country) through the official foreign exchange market, and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the rema in ing declared assets in excess of £40,000 or £80,000, as appropriate, are restricted for a four-year period f rom the date of the depar t ing person's redesignation as a nonresident. U.K. residents tak ing up residence and employment in mem- ber countries of the EEC, however, may, with specific approval, t ran s fer sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange in excess of the £80,000 limit where this is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the employment in question. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM During the four-year period the restricted funds may be disposed of for foreign currencies other than Rhode- sian currency through the investment currency market, may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on the Stock Exchange—the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market— or may be used, with general or specific permission, to meet certain expenses in the United Kingdom. Af ter the four-year period any remaining assets are transfer- able in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the transfer at the official market rate of exchange is normally allowed. The participation of foreign capital as a direct invest- ment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be sur- rendered at rates ruling in the official market unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases involving the takeover of existing companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are normally, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and, where the company is a vehicle for portfolio investment in securities or property, on any subsequent finance being provided in foreign currency or External Account sterling at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. The acquisition in any manner by any person not resident in the United Kingdom of 10 per cent or more of.the outstanding shares of a quoted company registered in the United Kingdom requires prior exchange control approval. Nonresident firms and individuals must obtain exchange control permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and all U.K. resident companies are required to obtain consent before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. U.K. residents also need permission to lend funds to U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents and U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents require permission to raise finance by way of bills of exchange, promissory notes, or certain other instruments. Such permission is normally given without restriction for sterling lending for the company's business in the United Kingdom, except where the borrower is a vehicle for portfolio investment in securities or property. U.K. banks are prohibited f rom prov id ing sterling loans or overdraf ts to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories for the purpose of financing trade between non-Scheduled Territories. Similarly, U.K. merchants, except certain commodity traders, may not 428 finance such trade in sterling. They are, however, allowed to do so with foreign currency borrowed for the purpose. Borrowing by U.K. residents from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to finance expenditure in the United Kingdom is subject to restrictions. Private sector U.K. residents other than authorized banks nor- mally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories for conversion into sterling for use in the United Kingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories, unless the term of borrowing is at least two years; exporters, merchants, and certain com- modity traders are, however, permitted to borrow foreign currency for shorter periods from authorized banks or from nonresidents to finance their sales or, in some cases, stockholdings. Public sector entities nor- mally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency unless the term of the foreign borrowing is at least five years; for permitted foreign currency borrowing they may avail themselves of exchange cover provided by the Treasury. Authorized banks must not lend foreign cur- rency to U.K. residents (other than authorized banks) for any other purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. U.K. companies normally are not permitted to borrow External Account sterling from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories unless the term of the borrowing is at least two years. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositaries, transactions in quoted securities of most types may generally be carried out freely between resi- dents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions which involve loss of U.K. voting control of a company, because the purchaser is itself nonresident-controlled, require Bank of England consent, and transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on the Stock Exchange. Residents are normally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories, and, in respect of those held for portfolio investment purposes, to reinvest the proceeds (investment currency) in marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for sucb investments or for certain approved direct investment or approved purchases of property for private use outside the Scheduled Territories. The pro- ceeds of sale of foreign currency securities held as direct investments must be sold at the official market rate of exchange or, where appropriate, may, with Bank of England permission, be retained in foreign currency for use for further outward direct investments in the context of a group reorganization. Investment currency may normally be retained as investment currency for a maxi- mum of 12 months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.20 Professional security managers acting on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day bor- rowing of foreign currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not pre- vented by the U.K. regulations f rom buy ing and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on the Stock Exchange, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other foreign currency securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either t rans fe ror or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U.K. authorities. Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on the Stock Exchange against payment in foreign currency or in sterling from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on the Stock Exchange for settlement in foreign currency or, in cer- tain circumstances, for settlement in sterling excluding the investment currency premium. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy and sell securities in the United Kingdom other than through the medium of a professional dealer in securities, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securi- ties on the Stock Exchange for sterling which may be held on External Account or, alternatively, may be transferred abroad at official market rates. Most trans- actions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England; subject to certain conditions, however, author- ized banks may approve applications by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell sterling securities on the Stock Exchange. Except in respect of U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories (where Bank of England consent is required), warrants issued by 20 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term gov- e rnment bonds (w i th up to six mon ths to run before final m a tu r i ty) or in six-month treasury bills or other fo rms of recognized short-term money-market paper (including certificates of deposit). UNITED KINGDOM registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addresses outside the Scheduled Territories. These war- rants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency busi- ness. They may also switch such deposits into sterling on a covered basis. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in foreign currencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Gold bullion and gold coin are subject to control in the United Kingdom. Exemption under the Exchange Control Act, 1947 exists for (1) the buying, selling, lending, and borrowing of gold coin minted in or before 1937; (2) the buying and selling of any gold coin minted a f ter 1937 and held in the United Kingdom, if the seller is a person resident in the United Kingdom and is not selling on behalf of a person resident outside the United Kingdom; (3) the buying and selling of any gold coin minted af ter 1937 and held in the United Kingdom if the buyer and seller are both persons resident in the United Kingdom; and (4) the borrowing and lending of any gold coin minted after 1937 and held in the United Kingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are per- sons resident in the United Kingdom. Transactions both in gold coin not exempted above and in gold bullion may only be undertaken with permission. Permission is normally given for the use of gold bullion for genuine industrial and professional purposes. The sale of gold bullion for the manu fac tu re of gold coin, gold medals, etc., is prohibited unless specially authorized. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate in the United Kingdom. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United King- dom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. Bulk imports of gold coins, certain gold coins of numismatic interest minted af ter 1937, and gold medals, medallions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions and manufac tured after 1937, other than those of limited weight and value, are subject to individual import licensing, and such licenses are nor- mally given only to authorized dealers in gold. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. The export of gold bullion and of post-1937 gold coins to Gibraltar and the Republic of Ireland is not normally permitted except with the approval of the local control authorities. Authority has been given to authorized 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Scheduled Territory resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign cur- rency. A license is required f rom the Department of Trade for the export of gold (and other) jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manu fac- tured fo rm over 100 years old and valued at £4,000 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade. Manufac tures of gold other than medals, etc., manu- factured after 1937 may be imported without quantita- tive restriction under Open General Import License f rom all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, and (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of 0.25 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. Authorized banks may enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may also finance purchases of gold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories by lending foreign exchange and may accept gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or External Account sterling to nonresidents of the Sched- uled Territories. Changes during 1978 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions, directives, and regula- tions; most of these related to textiles. January 1. New quota levels for imports f rom coun- tries in the State Trading Area came into effect; subse- quently, there were several modifications. January 31. Quotas on imports of certain steel prod- ucts from Romania were established for the first half of 1978. The restrictions were removed on August 4. March 24. The ban on imports of certain iron and steel products from the U.S.S.R. was replaced by a quota of 7,500 tons to the end of June; subsequently, the quota was extended to the end of 1978 at an annual level of 15,000 tons. April 1. It was announced that British exporters would no longer have access to concessionary finance for goods sold to other EEC members on credit terms of two years or more. April 10. Surveillance licensing was introduced for certain cutlery products. June 29. The limits up to which banks might author- ize, without reference to the Bank of England, payments abroad were raised. The increases were for a variety of purposes ranging from advertising expenses to income tax. June 29. Institutional investors investing in foreign currency securities issued by investment trusts, unit trusts, mu tual funds, or other investment bodies whose principal purpose was portfolio investment in securities, land, or property were no longer restricted as to the amount of their assets which might be held in such foreign currency securities. The 20 per cent limit on the acquisition of foreign currency securities carrying voting rights remained. August 16. Authorized depositaries were authorized to effect sales of most foreign currency securities held in restricted deposit, without reference to the Bank of England. Also, dividends on U.K. residents' holdings of foreign currency securities received in stock would, in fu tu re, take on the character of the underlying hold- ing without the requirement to effect a compensatory transaction in the investment currency market. August 22. Import quotas on certain iron and steel products originating in Bulgaria and the German Demo- cratic Republic were established for 1978. September 12. A relaxation of controls on U.K. residents buying low fineness gold for industrial purposes was introduced. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter dis- orderly conditions in the exchange markets; in recent years such intervention has been confined to the spot market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals w i th license applica- tions involving financial or commercial transactions directly or indirectly with Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regula- tions, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations. It also has adminis- trative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries (except Rhodesia) as well as accounts of the People's Republic of China blocked under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations as of May 6, 1971 and accounts of Czechoslovakia, Estonia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Latvia, and L i thuan ia, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regu- lations. It also adm in is ters the import restrictions imposed with respect to Uganda under Section 5(c) of Public Law 95-435. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified da i ry products are administered by the Department of Agriculture th rough the issuance of import licenses. A global import quota on sugar has been ma in ta ined since 1974 at a nonrestrictive level of 7 m i l l ion short tons annua l ly. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Depar tment of the Interior. For items sub ject to export control— other than crude petroleum and petroleum products— the Department of Commerce is, in general, the respon- sible authority. There are no restrictions on fore ign paymen ts, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions invo lv ing the authorities or na t iona ls of the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, No r th Korea, and Viet Nam, and those imposed pur- suant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 with regard to Rhodesia. Most current trans- actions involving the People's Republic of China are authorized, except those involving strategic goods or assets of the People's Republic of China which were blocked as of May 6, 1971.1 Payments restrictions in respect of Cuba were eased to permit payments for support of relatives in Cuba, for purposes of cultural exchange, and for purposes of travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals. Payments restrictions in respect of Viet Nam were eased for purposes of support remittances to close relatives. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Cuban, Kampuchean, North Korean, Rhodesian, Ugandan, and Vietnamese origin are pro- hibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes (tariff-rate quotas); (3) sugar; (4) certain types of meat; and (5) stain- less steel and alloy tool steel products. Among the quan t i ta t ive import quotas, all except those for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, butter oil, and sugar are on a country-of-production basis. In addition, imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program, and import license fees. Certain dairy products which are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the GATT Arrange- ment Regarding International Trade in Textiles and to 18 bilateral textile agreements negotiated under the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements set the levels for the partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. In 1978 the United States nego- tiated new bilateral textile and apparel agreements with five of these countries (Colombia, Mexico, the Philip- pines, Singapore, and Thailand). These agreements were negotiated in accordance with the terms of the Arrangement. The agreements provide for orderly expansion of trade while at the same time recognizing U.S. concerns in import-impacted categories. As of the end of 1978, no l im i ta t ions were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, but these were generally subject to import licenses and import license fees. Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, mu t ton, and goat's meat are restricted through voluntary res tra int agreements (12 bilateral agreements and one memo randum of unde r s tand ing ), as an alternative to the imposition of manda to ry quotas under the Meat Import 1 On Ma rch 2, 1979 the T reasu ry Department announced that a claims se t t lement agreement w i th the People's Republic of China had been initialed. The United States agreed to unblock the assets of the People's Repub l ic of China and of its nationals by October 1, 1979. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Act of 1964. Imports of a number of manufactured products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agree- ments designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries (shoes, televisions, and specialty steels). Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Eastern Europe, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equipment to all countries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Com- merce administers controls on exports directly from the United States and on reexports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to certain areas of goods of foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses, and generally no licenses are issued except for educa- tional, medical, or human i tar ian items. All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, and Viet Nam (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic ma- terials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), certain Arab states, Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, and Viet Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's shipment. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European coun- tries. From time to time, exports of certain commodities to all destinations have been subject to controls for reasons of short supply. Export arrangements for wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean oil are subject to reporting requirements in order to avoid the need for controls. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The t rans fer of funds to Rhodesia is permitted only under licenses which are gran ted only for medical, educational, or human i ta r ian purposes. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made free ly, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Nor th Korea, and Viet Nam, which also are permitted only 432 under license. However, as of January 4, 1978, U.S. residents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries, and specific licenses are available for certain transactions in connection with cultural exchanges be- tween the United States and Cuba. Receipts from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam are prohibited, except for travel receipts from Cuban nationals visiting the United States. Individuals leaving or entering the country with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and /or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other form of approval requirements. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regula- tions. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country when they are carrying in excess of US$5,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting require- ments for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, as of October 25, 1978, owner- ship of U.S. farmland by foreign nationals must be registered with the Federal Government. On August 28, 1978, the reserve requirement on Federal Reserve member banks' net Eurodollar borrow- ings from their foreign branches and from foreign banks was reduced from 4 per cent to zero per cent. In addition, the reserve requirement that a head office of a member bank must hold against deposits that its foreign branches use for lending to U.S. nonbank resi- dents was reduced from 1 per cent to zero. Also, an earlier request of the Federal Reserve Board was with- drawn. Under this request nonmember banks that are majority-owned by foreign banks and U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks would have voluntarily main- tained reserves against increases above May 1973 levels in certain net liabilities to (or reductions in net claims on) foreign banks. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encourag- ing placement of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to regulations or regulatory limitation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involv- ing Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Rho- desia, Uganda, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, with the same ex- ceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not re- quired, with the same country exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import du ty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes during 1978 January 4. The Treasury Department announced it would allow residents to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to relatives in Viet Nam. Remittances to those countries had previously been banned. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam would be allowed to aid in a relative's emigration f rom those countries. January 5. It was determined that exports of butter cookies from Denmark were being subsidized by 30 per cent and were subject to countervailing duties by the United States; however, countervailing duties were waived. (Under the Trade Act of 1974, Congress gave the Treasury Department authority under certain condi- tions to waive countervailing duties. This authority was scheduled to expire on January 3, 1979, at which point the Treasury Department would be required to impose all of the duties that had been waived during the previous four years.) January 12. The United States concluded a new three-year textile agreement with Poland covering the period January 1, 1978-December 31, 1980. January 18. The President decided to continue, with slight modification, the import quotas on specialty steel products in effect under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974. January 24. The Treasury Department imposed countervailing duties of 12.5 per cent on imports of iron and steel chains from Spain. January 30. The Treasury Department determined that exports of handbags, nonrubber footwear, and leather apparel from Uruguay were being subsidized by UNITED STATES 17.4 per cent, 23 per cent, and approximately 12 per cent, respectively. Handbags and nonrubber footwear were subject to countervailing duties. Initially these duties were waived but the waiver was revoked on November 13 and duties were imposed. The leather apparel case was sent to the International Trade Com- mission (ITC) for determination of in jury because imports were entering the United States duty free. The ITC found in ju ry. February 16. The Department of Commerce intro- duced new export regulations imposing an embargo on shipments of products and unpublished technical data for use by military or police organizations in South A f r ica and Namibia. February 17. The Treasury Department ruled that imports of railway track maintenance equipment from Austria were being dumped. February 21. The Treasury Department's ''trigger- price mechanism" for steel imports took effect. Under the program imports of steel mill products'were moni- tored at ports of entry and their prices were compared with "trigger prices" calculated from the cost of pro- ducing steel by the most efficient exporting country ( Japan ). Trigger prices subsequently were increased on July 1 and October 1. March 1. By an executive order issued on February 25 the list of products covered by the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) was modified. A total of 320 products were designated as ineligible for duty-free treatment when imported f rom specified developing countries; at the same time 121 products from specified countries were redesignated as eligible for duty-free treatment. GSP treatment was extended to 11 items that had not previously been designated as eligible, while 1 product was deleted f rom the list of eligible imports. March 27. A Presidential proclamation temporarily raised tar iffs on citizens band transceivers f rom the previous rate of 6 per cent to 21 per cent in 1978, 18 per cent in 1979, and 15 per cent in 1980. The product was also removed from GSP eligibility. April 1. The Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits became effective. This agreement, among the United States and other members of the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), established guidelines designed to curb inter- national competition on extending government-supported export credits. The agreement replaced the unilateral declaration by the United States and six other countries (which subsequently was adopted by most other OECD countries) that had been in effect since July 1976. May 2. The Treasury Department determined that exports of handbags f rom Colombia were being sub- sidized and were subject to countervailing duties in the United States; however, countervailing duties were waived. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES May 9. The Treasury Department issued regulations authorizing payment of travel expenses by Cuban nationals visiting the United States. It also published a statement of licensing policy announcing that specific licenses would be available for certain transactions in connection with cultural exchanges between the United States and Cuba. May 23. The Treasury Department instituted monthly gold auctions. From May through October, the Treasury sold 300,000 ounces of gold a month in exchange for U.S. dollars. The gold was available to U.S. citizens and foreigners (except foreign governments or central banks). In November, monthly gold sales were increased to 750,000 ounces and in December to 1,500,000 ounces. May 25. The Treasury Department ruled that imports of impression fabric f rom Japan were being dumped in the United States. May 30. The Treasury Department ruled that imports of carbon steel plate from Japan were being dumped in the United States. June 8. The United States concluded a new three-year textile agreement with Malaysia covering the period January 1, 1978-December 31, 1980. June 8. It was announced that the importation of an additional 200 million pounds of beef would be allowed in 1978 in an effort to slow the rise in beef prices. Under a voluntary restraint program, imports of beef in 1978 had previously been limited to 1,292 million pounds. June 15. The Treasury Department announced a new method of calculating countervailing duties on rebates of certain indirect taxes. As a result, the countervailing duties on imports of bottled green olives and nonrubber footwear from Spain were reduced. On August 29, however, the Treasury Department announced its inten- tions to review its new procedure. The original assess- ments had been made in 1974 and 1975, respectively. June 16. The Treasury Department determined that exports of certain fish f rom Canada were being sub- sidized. Countervailing duties were waived. Because some of these products were eligible for duty-free import, the imposition of countervailing duties would require an affirmative finding of in ju ry and that portion of the case was referred to the ITC. On September 19 the ITC ruled that imports of duty-free fish from Canada were not causing in ju ry to domestic industry and that portion of the case was closed. June 30. The Treasury Department ruled that imports of polyvinyl chloride from the Republic of China were being dumped in the United States. July 5. The Department of Commerce announced increased restrictions on exports of crime control and detection equipment, requiring licenses for all shipments except to other member countries of the NATO, Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. Previously, licenses were required only for exports to Eastern European 434 countries, the Republic of China, Namibia, South Africa, and the U.S.S.R. July 31. The Treasury Department imposed counter- vailing duties of 10.8 U.S. cents a pound on imports of sugar from the EEC. August 1. The Department of Commerce announced that the U.S.S.R. had been added to the list of countries (Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, North Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam) to which exports of oil and gas equip- ment and technology required a license. August 9. The Treasury Department amended its regulation for determinirig when sales in the United States have been made at less than fa ir value by nonmarket economies. The Treasury announced that, when pos- sible, it would use the prices of comparable products in market-oriented countries at similar levels of develop- ment. When such comparisons were not available, how- ever, the Treasury would estimate the cost of production by using the monetary value of the inputs in a market- oriented economy at a similar level of development. Finally, if the second approach were not feasible, the Treasury would use the price of such or similar mer- chandise produced and sold by a market-oriented country. August 24. The Treasury Department determined that exports of iron and steel chain from Japan were being subsidized and imposed countervailing duties of 2 per cent. August 28. The Federal Reserve Board announced changes in reserve requirements aimed at strengthening the U.S. dollar by encouraging member banks to sub- stitute Eurodollar borrowing for domestic borrowing. The changes involved a reduction from 4 per cent to zero in the reserve requirement on foreign borrowing of member banks from their foreign branches and other foreign banks, and a reduction from 1 per cent to zero in the reserve requirement on foreign branch loans to U.S. borrowers. September 8. The President made a determination under Section 101 (b) of Public Law 95-223 extending for one year the authority of Section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act with respect to countries affected by the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Funds Control Regulations, and the Transactions Control Regulations. September 17. The International Banking Act of 1978 was signed into law. The new law, which represented the first overall regulatory scheme for the participation of foreign banks in the U.S. domestic market, sought to implement national treatment of foreign and domestic banks. The law provided, inter alia, that branches and agencies of foreign banks might have federal charters (previously they were limited to state charters); that the Federal Reserve Board was legally authorized to set reserve ratios and apply other monetary policy regula- tions for both federal and state branches and agencies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of foreign banks having more than US$1 billion in world- wide consolidated assets; that foreign banks might be a majority owner in an Edge Act corporation; and that, with the exception of operations in existence or for which an application had been filed with the appropriate authorities prior to July 27, 1978, a foreign bank might accept deposits unrelated to international business in only one state of the United States. Several sections of the Act required the issuance of regulations, which would be published for public comment. October 10. Public Law 95-435 was enacted impos- ing import and export restrictions on Uganda. October 25. The Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act went into effec t, setting fo r th new report- ing requirements for foreign nationals owning farm land in the United States. October 27. The Treasury Department announced that the determination of countervailing du ty on imports of carbon steel plate and high-strength steel plate f rom Mexico w a s 'b e ing revoked because the subsidy paid to exporters had been eliminated. The countervailing duty itself had been waived. November 1. The Treasury Department and the Fed- eral Reserve announced a package of measures to strengthen the dollar and counter domestic inf la t ionary pressures: these included approval of a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York f rom 8.5 to 9.5 per cent and establishment of a supplementary reserve require- ment equal to 2 per cent of time deposits in denom ina- tions of US$100,000 or more. There would be increased intervention in the foreign exchange markets, in cooperation with the central banks of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Swit- zerland. To finance its share the United States was a r rang ing fac i l i t ies totaling the equ iva lent of US$30 billion in the currencies of those three countries. The US$30 billion consisted of a US$3 b i l l ion d raw ing on the U.S. reserve tranche in the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund, sales of US$2 billion worth of SDRs, issuance of the equivalent of up to US$10 billion in bonds denomi- nated in foreign currency in the Federal Republic of Germany and Switzerland, and possibly in Japan, and increases in Federal Reserve swap lines w i th the Deutsche Bundesbank, the Bank of J ap an, and the Swiss Na t ional Bank to a total of US$15 b i l l ion. November 2. The du ty-free allowance on goods U.S. citizens may bring back f rom abroad was increased f rom US$100 to US$300 a person a t r ip. For goods pur- chased in the U.S. Virgin Islands, the du ty - f ree allow- ance was raised from US$200 a person a tr ip to US$600. November 2. The President announced an increase in ta r i f fs on imports of high-carbon fe r roch rom ium priced at under 38 U.S. cents a pound. On J anu a ry 28 the President had rejected the ITC's recommendation UNITED STATES that import relief be granted to domestic producers on the ground that such relief was not in the national economic interest. On June 6 the House Ways and Means Committee requested that the ITC initiate a new investigation of the issue. November 8. The Treasury Department revoked its previous finding of dumping by the Federal Republic of" Germany of clear sheet glass weighing over 28 ounces a square foot, following assurances from the German manufac turers that they had terminated sales to the United States. November 16. The Treasury Department, after con- sidering the imposition of countervailing duties on imports of textiles and apparel (valued at US$1 billion) from Argentina, Brazil, the Republic of China, Colom- bia, India, the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, and Uruguay, decided to impose special duties only on some items from Uruguay and one item from Argentina. The Treasury found that Colombia was subsidizing certain leather apparel exports. Because imports of these items were du ty free, the case was sent to the ITC for an in ju ry determination. Brazil informed the United States that it would gradually reduce its subsidies on the items in question. The Treasury issued negative determina- tions in the other four cases. November 18. The United States concluded a bilateral trade agreement with Hungary providing for the reduc- tion of import duties on an estimated US$46 million in U.S.-Hungarian trade. The agreement included reciprocal most-favored-nation status. The agreement was scheduled to come into force upon the successful conclusion of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. November 21. The Treasury Department dropped its investigation under the trigger price mechanism of imports of carbon steel plates f rom Spain. Investigation of imports f rom Poland and the Republic of China continued with a pre l im inary decision expected in early 1979. November 27. The Treasury Department announced a fo rmal finding of dump ing of viscose rayon stable fiber by Belgium. December 8. The Treasury Department found that imports from Japan of steel wire strand for prestressed concrete were being dumped. December 12. The Eximbank increased from 8.5 per cent to 9 per cent the m in imum interest rate at which U.S. commercial banks could discount medium-term fixed-rate export loans. December 26. The President announced that tar iffs on indus tr ial fasteners were to be increased for three years. The du ty on screws was to rise from between 9.5 per cent and 12.5 per cent to 15 per cent, while the du ty on bolts and nuts would increase from between 0.2 U.S. cents a pound and 0.1 U.S. cent a pound to 15 per cent plus the specific duties. The decision was made fo l low ing a determination by the ITC that the domestic indus try was seriously in ju red or 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES threatened with serious injury, substantially because of imports. December 29. The United States concluded an orderly marketing agreement with the Republic of China cover- ing the latter's exports of color television sets to the United States. The agreement limited shipments of color sets to 127,000 between February 1 and July 1, 1979 and to 373,000 in the year beginning July 1, 1979, compared with shipments of approximately 625,000 sets in 1978. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. These rates include a banking commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commis- sion of 2.50 per mill on transfers to all countries out- side the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regula- tions, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Com- merce, Industrial Development, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Benin, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the former French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Volta is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or f rom The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made in West African accounting units through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Certain settlements with Ghana are made through special accounts. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China and the Federal Republic of Germany also are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the former French Franc Area) through Foreign Accounts. All settlements with Rhode- sia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an authorized bank's foreign corre- spondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized inter- mediaries to their fore ign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports from countries in the former French Franc Area may in principle be made freely, although exceptionally special regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EEC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the former French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Direc- torate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established for specified commodities and these 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA require import licenses. Imports from Ghana are sub- ject to special regulations. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and an import surcharge of 6 per cent. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but at the earliest eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before payment is due if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments to foreign countries, on behalf of resi- dents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re tu rn to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the former French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to 438 submission of documentation. Finally, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the former French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agr icu l tural products require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun- tries are permitted freely but some require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circum- stances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within two months of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit a customs certification. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical duty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or f rom Rhodesia or South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the former French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an author- ized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Govern- ment and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquida- tion of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Since October 30, 1975, fore ign firms operat- ing in Upper Volta are obliged to "Voltaize" their capital within two years, up to at least 51 per cent in vital or priority sectors and up to at least 35 per cent in all others. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Volta 3 Inc lud ing those made th rough fo re ign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or ind i rec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. UPPER VOLTA requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance trans- actions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting trans- actions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com- bined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. From March 1972 to October 1978 Uruguay maintained a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market for trade and certain debt transactions that were effected at a rate set by the authorities, and a financial market for other transactions in which the rate fluctuated freely. The two exchange markets were unified de facto on Octpber 17, 1978 when the Central Bank announced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amounts at f requent intervals.1 With effect from December 28, 1978 a forward exchange market was established. Buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 29, 1978, were NUr$7.036 and NUr$7.054, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Additional effective exchange rates may arise f rom (1) the application of exchange taxes on proceeds of a few traditional exports; (2) a 40 per cent tax on profit remittances exceeding 20 per cent per annum of invested capital for enterprises registered under the Uruguayan Foreign Investment Law (at present this provision is inoperative because enterprises may make profit remittances f r e e l y ); and ( 3) export subsidization through the exchange system. The proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, commercial banks,- and banking houses. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author- ized banks, banking houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. The Central Bank collects the m in imum import surcharge and export taxes, and the Bank of the Republic collects other import surcharges and consular charges and accepts export and import registrations. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the f ramewo rk of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Free Trade Association (LAFTA); these countries 1 In la te October 1978, the Central Bank, for the first time, indi- ca ted the ra te of deprec ia t ion for the fo l low ing th ree mon ths; in December 1978 the Central Bank announced directly the daily exchange rates th rough March 1979. 440 are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Most transactions in the manual market take place in U.S. dollars, Argentine pesos, or Brazilian cruzeiros. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. An import declaration must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic before the goods are shipped. Imports of fully assembled auto- mobiles are temporarily prohibited. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. Goods are classified into eight categories, and are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 55, 65, 90, 110, or 150 per cent, payable at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports f rom LAFTA countries, for imports made under the credit agreements signed by the Central Bank of Uruguay and the central banks of Argentina and Brazil, for imports of agricultural inputs, for imports by the public sector, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico—IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos—TMB). Most goods are charged a tariff rate of 20 per cent; certain goods are charged tariff rates of 25 per cent or multiples of 25 per cent up to 150 per cent. The service charge is 2 per cent of the c.i.f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to the IMADUNI and the TMB, and also differing (lower) tariff rates for certain prod- ucts. All imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value. These charges are 7.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetra- ethyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same com- modities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise (AN CA P ); 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 per cent for all other private sector imports. Import duties and surcharges are in most cases calcu- lated either on an officially assessed price (aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars a kilogram, or on the actual c.i.f. value. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an assumed c.i.f. price. Purchases with an exchange rate guarantee require a peso deposit at the time of application; the exchange is provided on the due date and the applicable exchange rate is that on the date of application for the guarantee. The facility is available for imports by the private sector, except imports of capital goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Profit remittances exceeding 20 per cent of the invested capital for enterprises registered under the Uruguayan Foreign Investment Law are, in principle, subject to a tax of 40 per cent. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of a few traditional exports are subject to taxes, which are withheld by the Central Bank on the basis of either the f.o.b. value or in pesos per un it of export commodity, but legally, the tax may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export. However, in practice, the m in imum rate is applied only to the few remaining taxed products. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered in fu ll to the Central Bank upon receipt. At the end of 1978 the prescribed maximum surrender periods were 6 months for trad i t ional exports and 14 months for non trad i t ional exports. Surrender periods are counted f rom the date on which the ship- ment authorization lapses (normally 10 days) when no advance surrender is made or from the date of the advance surrender. There are two advance surrender schemes. Under the adelanto scheme, the exporter receives 60 per cent of the peso counterpart at the current exchange rate and the other 40 per cent on the date of receipt of the exchange. An adjustment is then made in respect of the earlier transaction to compensate the exporter for any exchange rate devaluation between the advance sur- render and final surrender dates. The exporter is required to pay a commission equal to 30 per cent of the rate of interest determined monthly by the Central Bank as representative of current deposit rates. Under the preventa de divisas scheme, the exporter receives the full peso counterpart at the current rate of exchange. This is a spot operation and there is no fu ture adjust- ment. Export subsidies are granted in the form of tax credit certificates of up to 29 per cent of the f.o.b. value for most products. Higher benefits are granted to certain textile exports. Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially authorized) and specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and nickel) are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward tranfers relat- ing to investments registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally URUGUAY be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the trans- actions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Changes during 1978 Dur ing 1978 the buying and selling rates continued to be adjusted at frequent irregular intervals. Over the year the buy ing and selling rates were depreciated from NUr$5.40 and NUr$5 .41, respectively, per US$1 on Janua ry 1, 1978 to NUr$7.036 and NUr$7.054, respec- tively, per US$1 on December 31, 1978, resulting in a cumu la t ive depreciation of 30.3 per cent in terms of new pesos per U.S. dollar. The taxes (detracciones) on exports of sheepskins and cowhides, stated in terms of new pesos per kilogram of export, were increased periodically, rising roughly in line with the rate of devaluation. January 1. The new customs ta r i f f, impuesto aduanero unico ( IMADUN I ), came into operation. January 4. Decree No. 7/978 reduced the basic percentage rate of the IMADUNI f rom 25 per cent to 20 per cent, and reduced the rate of service charges (TMB) f rom 5 per cent to 2 per cent for most imports. January 25. Decree No. 39/978 extended indefinitely the exemption f rom consular and port fees granted to imports of tractors and agricultural machinery. February 1. Decree No. 66/978 extended until December 31, 1978 the exemption granted to imports of a large number of agricultural inputs f rom import charges and surcharges and f rom consular and port fees. March 30. With effect f rom May 1 foreign currency deposits f rom nonresidents that were used for loans to nonresidents were exempted f rom reserve require- ments (Central Bank Circular No. 909). March 31. Central Bank Circular No. 910 extended the max imum period for the surrender of export proceeds to 14 months for nontraditional exports and to 6 months for traditional exports. The exchange surrender period would be counted from the date of the advance payment. May 24. Decree No. 288 /978 reduced the import surcharge on tubes and tires for cycles and motorcycles to 65 per cent. June 9. Foreign currency deposits from nonresidents that were lent to nonresident financial institutions were made subject to reserve requirements (Central Bank Circular No. 919). June 28. Decree No. 367/978 exempted imports of 30,000 tons of potatoes, required to supplement domestic production, from charges and surcharges and from consular and port fees. June 30. Decree No. 372/978 reduced the rates of tax credits on exports by 15 per cent. Benefits that 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY would have expired dur ing the following 12-month period were extended to June 30, 1979. July 3. Decree No. 383/978 established that at least 50 per cent of Uruguayan foreign trade would be reserved for national flag carriers. August 11. Decree No. 462/978 abolished any pro- hibition on exports of cereals and oils and established that imports of these products would be subject to the IMADUNI and the TMB at rates of 25 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. (By Decree No. 674/978 imports of cereals and oils were exempted from import surcharges, retroactive to August 11.) August 11. Decree No. 464/978 established a 10 per cent import surcharge on fa rm machinery and assembled tractors and exempted imports of tractor kits f rom this surcharge and from any other import charges, sur- charges, consular fees, port fees, and the value-added tax. August 17. Decree No. 480/978 extended to June 12, 1979 the exemption granted to imports from Brazil under the credit agreement signed by the two central banks. The exemption covered import charges, sur- charges (including the 10 per cent m i n im um ), the IMADUN I, and the TMB. The exemption would apply also to products imported under the trade agreement (Convenio de Expansion Comercial) with Brazil if such imports were made through the credit agreement. August 17. Decree No. 481/978 extended to June 4, 1979 the exemption granted to imports f rom Argentina under the credit agreement signed by the two central banks. The exemption covered import charges, sur- charges (including the 10 per cent m in imum ), the IMADUN I, and the TMB. September 8. Central Bank Circular No. 940 estab- lished that the 30 per cent commission charged on the peso advance under the export prefinancing scheme would be based on a monthly representative deposit rate rather than on the rate for certain treasury bills. September 27. Decree No. 557/978 reduced the surcharge on imports of wool f rom 110 per cent to 10 per cent; exempted these products f rom import charges or fees, except port fees; eliminated aforo prices for wool exports; abolished the sobreaforo arrangement; and extended the tax credits granted to textile products made with Uruguayan wool to those made with imported wool. October 11. Central Bank Circular No. 944 estab- lished a full surrender requirement for export proceeds from sales of wool. October 17. The Central Bank announced that it would buy or sell any amount of foreign currency at rates that would be adjusted in variable amounts at frequent intervals. (This implied the de facto unifica- tion of the two exchange markets.) October 25. Decree No. 603/978 established that with effect from October 15, the tax (retention) on wool exports would be based on the f.o.b. value, at 100 per cent for greasy wool, 97 per cent for washed wool, and 100 per cent of the value of tops for combed wool. October 26. The Central Bank began selling three- month treasury bills, denominated in new pesos with the option for the investor to request payment at ma tur i ty in new pesos or U.S. dollars. The Central Bank's offer stated the face value in new pesos and the interest to be paid and gave the amount of U.S. dollars (principal and interest) to be sold to the investor when the bill matured. This indicated to the public the rate of depreciation to be expected during the following three months. November 15. Decree No. 635/978 reduced the import charge on imports of edible oils to 15 per cent, and the IMADUNI and the TMB to zero per cent; imports of sunflower meal and soybean meal were exempted f rom import charges and surcharges. November 20. Central Bank Circular No. 949 author- ized the cancellation of the obligations under the two schemes, adelanto and preventa de divisas, for exporters who are affected by the introduction of countervailing duties by the United States. November 27. Central Bank Communique No. 78/121 offered new three-month treasury bills with an option for the investor to redeem in new pesos or in U.S. dollars. November 29. Decree No. 665/978 abolished the exemption granted by Decree No. 628/977 to imports of sweet potatoes, squash, and green vegetables. December 13. Decree No. 691/978 abolished the special import deposit (consignation) established by Decrees Nos. 334/971 of June 4, 1971 and 786/971 of November 30, 1971 on imports from LAFTA countries when the f.o.b. price exceeded the representative price in international markets. December 28. Central Bank Circular No. 955 reduced the time period for payments for imports from 120 days to 30 days after the due date. December 28. The Central Bank announced that daily exchange rates would be published for three months ahead, with effect from January 1979. 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar established by the Central Bank of Venezuela are Bs 4.28 and Bs 4.2925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' selling rate to the public is Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange transactions arising in connection with the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries of the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron industries take place at a selling rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. The Central Bank's buying rate in transactions with the public sector (other than the hydrocarbon and iron ore companies) and international organizations in which Venezuela has a participation or interest is Bs 4.2925 per US$1.1 Buy ing a n d - s e l l i ng rates for cer ta in other currencies2 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign banks may only sell fo re ign exchange that has not been obtained f rom the Central Bank. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in bank- notes, coin, and travelers checks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Impo rt and export licenses, when required, are genera l ly issued by the M in is t ry of Development or the M in i s t ry of Agricul- tu re and Livestock, depending on the commod i ty; for certain agr icu l tural products, the prior approval of the Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Corporation must be obtained before applications for export licenses are subm i t ted. The Super in tendency of Foreign Inves tmen ts (SIEX) is charged with supervision over fore ign inves tment in Venezuela, over contracts for the impo r ta t ion of foreign technology and the use of fo re ign pa ten ts and trade- marks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Payments between Venezuela and A rgen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and U rugu ay may be made 1 The Cen t ral B ank does not sell f o r e i gn exchange to the pub l ic but does sell m inor amoun ts to i ts s ta ff and c e r t a in g o v e r nm e nt off ic ia ls, for t r av el expenses, at the ra te of Bs 4.30 per US$1. - C an ad i an dollars, deu tsche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japa- nese yen, Po r tugue se escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss f rancs. through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohib- ited. In add i t ion, the import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include iron and steel products, motor vehicles, a large number of consumer durables, certain textiles, coffee, citrus f r u i t, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, na tu ral pearls, and matches. Many other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quan t i ta t ive restrictions are ma in ta ined on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except for Andean Pact countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South Afr ica. Import licenses for some goods are issued on the condition that the impor ter has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed per- centage of the quan t i ty to be imported. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles may be made f ree ly; pri- vate sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited in principle to 20 per cent per annum of registered foreign capital, in accordance w i th Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on depa r tu re a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemp- tions exist for children under seven, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and fore ign diplomats, and personnel of in te rna t ional organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohib- ited. Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of many other commodities. For most commodities such licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agricul- tu re and Livestock. The export of gold and precious stones requ i res an export license issued by the M in is try of Finance. There are no surrender requ iremen ts for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Venezuelan ports from falling below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Nontraditional exports, as well as certain agricultural exports, are eligible for freely negotiable tax certificates, as an export incentive, provided that the value added nationally is at least 30 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles are freely disposable. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mu tual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for invest- ment purposes and all fore ign credits must be registered with SIEX. Na tural gas and iron m in ing operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regu- lates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Gov- ernment to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports requ ire licenses f rom the M in is try of Finance and in certain cases also from the M in is try of Development, while exports are licensed by the M in is try of Finance only. The law prescribes a 444 license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. Changes during 1978 January 3. The import of motor vehicles not pro- duced in Venezuela was prohibited, except for passenger automobiles under tariff item 87.02.01.99.01 which could continue to be imported with a customs tariff of 120 per cent. Commercial vehicles under tariff item 87.02.01.99.02 could also continue to be imported at a ta r i ff rate of 50 per cent. Reference prices were estab- lished for imports of permitted vehicles (Decree No. 2535 and Resolution No. 1700). January 10. Licenses were required for the import of iron and steel pipes. (Resolution No. 1713). March 1. It was announced that licenses would be required for imports of consumer durables, and would be granted only if national production of the items concerned was inadequate. March 22. Under Decree No. 2621, imports of some 500 consumer goods were prohibited. By Decree No. 2622 most iron and steel products could be imported only through SIDOR. By Decree No. 2623 the prohibition on imports of motor vehicles was extended to cover additional types and models (including those exempted by the measures taken on January 3 ). April 28. Decree No. 2664 continued the control of public sector imports specified in Decree No. 2166 of May 26, 1977. August 1. By Decree No. 2771 import quotas on specified agricultural products were suspended until December 31. August 3. Decree No. 2773 increases in customs tariffs. August 15. The import of certain products (mainly machinery and equipment and certain commercial vehi- cles), previously prohibited, was made subject to a licensing requirement, and import duties on most of the items were raised substantially. September 26. It was announced that withholding tax rules on foreign loans would be temporarily and selec- tively liberalized. Under a new tax law of June 23, 1978, foreign stockholders would pay a 20 per cent tax on stock dividends received in 1978, plus 5 per cent on cash dividends. Holding companies must either pay out 50 per cent of profits as dividends or pay tax of 15 per cent for account of their shareholders. The new tax would not apply to listed securities, insurance com- panies, or financiers (Decree No. 2872). introduced further ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System On May 3, 1978 the North Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were withdrawn f rom circula- tion and a new currency, the Vietnamese Dong, was introduced, with an official exchange rate of VD 2.66358 = SDR 1. Exchange rates of the dong for certain foreign currencies are quoted by the State Bank of Viet Nam ( the central bank) on the basis of the average rate of the respective currency vis-a-vis the SDR. All payments in convertible currencies are made at the official exchange rate. A premium of 50 per cent is applied to inward transfers and receipts f rom tourists. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. All foreign trade is a state monopoly and is administered by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried out by specialized state import-export corporations. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Foreign Trade upon appli- cation by the import-export corporations; licenses are granted only for imports and exports contained in the Foreign Trade Plan. All foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Albania, the People's Republic of China, and North Korea are settled in rubles or renminbi. Nontrade trans- actions with countries with which Viet Nam has bilateral payments agreements1 take place at exchange rates specified in these agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in nonresident accounts either in foreign currencies or in dong. Non- residents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and t rans fer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese cur- rency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import and export plan is drawn up annually. Import and export transactions are carried out by about 15 state export-import corporations. Some of these cor- porations have their own producing units, while others contract with supply enterprises. In principle, the price received by the producing enterprise bears no relation to world prices, since the sale from the producer to the trad- ing corporation is a domestic transaction at prices set by the authorities. Nonetheless, given that goods for export are usually of higher quality than those for the domestic 1 At present Viet Nam has bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts with ten countries that are not members of the IMF —Albania, Bulgaria, Peo- ple's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Re- public, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Nor th Korea, Poland, and U.S.S.R., and six IMF members —Bangladesh, Guinea, Mali, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. ma rket and that a policy of export incentives is being followed, goods for export command higher prices. Im- ports effected by the state trading corporations are sold in the domestic market at prices set by the authorities. All payments for trade transactions need the authorization of the State Bank and are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are normally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade and any other receipts from foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authori- zation by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs individual authorization and at present is limited to official business for which all foreign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had le ft the country before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations as determined by the State Bank for each individual case. Receipts from transactions in invisibles have to be surrendered to the State Bank within seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency needs the special permission of the State Bank. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for the estab- lishment of three fo rms of foreign investment: (1) invest- ment in the production of goods intended solely for exports; (2) jo int ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and ( 3) production-sharing partnerships for the exploitation of na tu ral resources. The share of foreign capital that is permitted ranges from 30 per cent to 49 per cent in the case of jo int ventures, and up to 100 per cent in enterprises specializing in production for exports. There are guarantees of repatriation of profits and of proper compensation in the event of nationalization. Gold The State Bank alone has authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1978 May 3. The North Vietnamese dong and South Viet- namese dong were withdrawn f rom circulation and replaced by a un i fo rm currency, the dong. Conversion into the new currency unit was made at rates of 1 North Vietnamese dong and 0.8 South Vietnamese dong, respectively. June 29. Viet Nam became a member of the CMEA. July 21. A bilateral trade and payments agreement with Bangladesh took effect. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Exchange rates are computed on the basis of the fixed relationship between the tala and the basket of currencies used by New Zealand in establishing exchange rates for the New Zealand dollar. Since December 20, 1976 the exchange rate for the New Zealand dollar has been WS$0.76 = $NZ 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar. On Decem- ber 29, 1978 the buying and selling rates of the tala for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$0.7054 and WS$0.7265, respectively, per US$1. There is an exchange levy of 1 per cent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 per cent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the daily administration of exchange controls and the exchange allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his authority to the Financial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank — the only authorized banks —-powers to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from all sources for reasons of security or health. Other com- modities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual alloca- tion of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a semiannual 446 basis, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automobiles.1 The allocations are made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which auto- matically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documentary evidence. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a downpayment of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- trac tual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the authorized banks up to any amount or w i th in limits determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for all other invisibles require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance. Remittances for study abroad are freely authorized. The Ministry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally f rom pensions, rents, interest, and dividends by persons permanen t ly resident overseas. Residents travel- ing to American Samoa, whether for business or private purposes, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent of up to US$200 a person a quarter; an add i t ional allowance of US$50 a day may be provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other countries is equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations against evi- dence of genuine need. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Marketing Division on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board, cocoa exports by the Cocoa Board, and banana exports by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 per cent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export pro- 1 Rice, flour, sugar, milk products, canned fish, mutton flaps, and spare parts for motor vehicles may be imported freely outside the allocation system. During 1978 imports of automobiles, except those by the Government and by nonresidents using their own foreign exchange holdings, were limited to 15 a month. 2 The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within a reasonable time after shipment. Where excep- tional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies f rom estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries permanently WESTERN SAMOA residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam i ly group. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 4.5 = US$1. On Decem- ber 31, 1978 the official buying and selling rates for spot telegraphic transfers were YRls 4.550 and YRls 4.575, respectively, per US$1. (The exchange rate of YRls 5.5 = US$1 is used for customs valuation pur- poses.) Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Supply and Trade grants licenses for imports and exports. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. All commercial banks deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.2 Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of petro- leum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. All other imports require licenses, which are issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permis- sion of certain government agencies. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange f rom the local banks or the free mar- ket. A margin deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for all imports. In addi- tion to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports require registration forms, which are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Economy. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Repub- lic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits a f ter taxes or of their capital. Certain tax and customs du ty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1978 1 Deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian l ire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. 2 There is a b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangement with Egypt which is inope ra t ive. April 2. The rate of margin deposits applicable to letters of credit was changed to 20 per cent for all imports. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. The buy ing and selling rates are confined w i th in YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also off ic ia l ly quoted by the National Bank of Yemen ( the sole commercial b a n k ), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1978 the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The adm in is tra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated cer- tain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the sole com- mercial bank and authorized dealer, the National Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports ( inc lud ing those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public cor- porations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, be low). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applied in the United Kingdom. All payments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currenciesl and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Payments for imports must be made in pre- scribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti d inars, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. ferred f rom abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances f rom other External Accounts. Transfers f rom abroad must be in the fo rm of bank d ra f t s; the accounts cannot be credited with payments in the fo rm of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en t ry ), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts, and for payments abroad in any converti- ble currency. Transfers abroad f rom External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require individual licenses. Goods originat- ing in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt f rom the licensing requirements. An import program is drawn up annually. In addition, importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary draf ts can be made by author- ized dealers w i thout the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all govern- ment requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports f rom the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which residents may take up w i thout applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN d ra f ts, and foreign notes and coin (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten ) .2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the applica- tion. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries f rom abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to ind iv idual licensing. All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the na t ional currency of the impo r t ing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received f rom an External Accoun t) and surrendered to the authorized dealer. However, Yemeni nationals working abroad are allowed to establish nonresident foreign currency accounts. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$ 10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwa i t, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf states. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YR ls 1,000 in Yemen rials. departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Indus try and the Promotion of Industrial Investment may be granted exemptions from import duty and vari- ous other tax facilities. All remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms should not norma l ly exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit in any one year. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value, or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remit- ted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered gold- smiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 tolas3 in weight, subject to registration in passports. Arriving fema le nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas duty free and up to an additional 25 tolas after pay ing import duty at a rate of 30 per cent. However, arriving male nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 40 tolas after paying import duty. Imports of bullion and specie must be sold to the National Bank of Yemen. Changes during 1978 No significant changes took place. 3 One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not ma in ta in the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins and, therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set fo r th for certain countries w i th which Yugoslavia has bilateral paymen ts agreements (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market, when neces- sary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 29, 1978 were Din 18.5833 and Din 18.6391, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly fo rmu l a t es the jo int economic policy of the country for each year based on the projec- tions of the ba lance of paymen ts and the fore ign exchange balance of Yugoslavia. These in tu rn contain the mu tua l ly adjusted projections of the balance of pay- ments and the fore ign exchange balances of the repub- lics and autonomous provinces as well as the foreign exchange expend i tures and revenues of the Federation. A se l f -manag ing commun i ty of interest for foreign economic relations has been set up in each republic and au tonomous province. Its members prescribe policies to be followed to achieve the agreed upon vo lume of exports of goods and services as well as the procedure for bo r row ing and lending abroad, under in ternal self- management agreements. These agreements are con- cluded on the basis of u n i f o rm cr i ter ia prescribed by the Yugoslav C omm u n i ty of Interest for Foreign Eco- nom ic Relations. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of fo re ign t rade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions gov- e rn ing commerc ial transac t ions, and issues impo rt and export licenses when requ ired. It is also charged with securing balanced t rade w i th paymen ts agreement coun- tries. The Federal Secretariat for F inance, the Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia, and the Na t ional Banks of the republics and au tonomous provinces adm in i s ter the exchange controls. The N a t ion al Bank prescribes the me thods of payment to and f rom fo re ign countries. Foreign exchange t ransac t ions mu st be carr ied out 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k ron e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F inn i sh m a r k k a a, French f r an c s, I r a qi d ina rs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Ne the r lands gu i lde r s, No rw eg i an k ron e r, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss f rancs. through an authorized bank of which there are three types. (1) Fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugo- slavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( inc lud ing the granting of guarantees). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange oper- ations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. (3) Author- ized exchange offices which may only purchase foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign banknotes and travelers checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organ iza t ions (bo th producing and trading unde r tak ing s) registered for this purpose. Economic organ iza t ions that are not registered to conduct foreign t rade channel the ir orders and impor ts and exports th rough economic organizations which are authorized to engage in fore ign trade transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Yugo- slavia has b i la teral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set for th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is made in a conver t ib le currency. Yugoslavia has pay- ments agreements requ ir ing settlements through bilateral accoun ts as fo l lows: (1) in U.S. dollars w i th Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mon- golia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) in pounds sterling with Viet Nam .2 Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may ma in ta in accounts denom ina ted in fo re ign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the fo l low ing rules: foreign- ers resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in d inars w i th fu l ly author- ized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign missions and for- eigners resident in Yugoslavia may free ly open accounts expressed in fo re ign currenc ies or dinars, w i th any au tho r ized bank. Foreign exchange accoun ts in convertible currencies of non r e s id ent ju r id i c al and physical persons are kept - A new t r a de and paymen ts agreement w i th Viet Nam, concluded on December 11, 1978 will prov ide, on ra t i f ica t ion, for settlement of t r a n s a c t i o ns in conver t ib le cu r renc ies. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA in the currency deposited.8 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any conver- tible currency. Transfers f rom these accounts are f ree if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign juridi- cal and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Bal- ances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo- slavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for permitted payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account holder's country of domicile. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited w i th dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, non transferab le and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his' immediate fam i ly, or by the owner and staff of fore ign firms if the account holder is a foreign jur id ical person. If balances on these accounts derive f rom copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, f rom pen- sions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated f rom Yugoslavia, or f rom alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accordance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the foreign currency deposited and bear interest, which is paid in the same foreign cur- rency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefinitely and may be drawn upon free ly for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate fam i ly; balances are not trans- ferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, be low ). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and fo rmer emigrants re tu rn ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used free ly for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies 3 Accounts may be denom ina ted in any of the following currencies: Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f rancs, Italian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, No rweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 452 may be maintained by resident nationals. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo- slavia or for transfer to the bilateral partner country. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. Most major industrial producers are so regis- tered, in addition to economic organizations that special- ize in foreign trade. The import of certain basic foods tuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in three categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB —liberalized goods; RK and DK — goods subject to individual quotas; and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. Exchange for payments for imports from the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of self-management agreements concluded within the self-management communities of interest in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting coun- try. Payments for imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK) include raw materials, manu fac tu r ing components, equ ipmen t, and consumer goods. The quotas are estab- lished either in quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by agreement among the economic organizations.4 Addi- t ional quotas may be allocated dur ing the year if the enterprise to which the quota is allocated undertakes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, firearms and ammun i t ion, oil, drugs, na tural gas, and bitumen. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. For certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, of a special import 4 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed on among economic organizations w i th in the Chamber of Economy according to projections of material balances for each commodity, wh ich are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the impor ters are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1978 goods subject to this requirement comprised 107 LB items, 35 RK items, and 9 DK items.5 The items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and f ru i ts, raw materials, cocoa butter, fats and oils, raw cotton, textiles and tin; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct importation f rom the country of origin. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regard- less of the import regime involved. Self-employed Yugo- slav nationals may freely, and at any time, import machinery for small fa rms or equipment for hand icraft production, up to Din 120,000 a shipment, and manu- facturing components up to Din 40,000 a shipment. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with moun ted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that these are imported through a registered enterprise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent resi- dence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indem- n i ty received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con- tinuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 6 per cent tax-equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt f rom customs duty. In addi- tion, an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for all dutiable com- modities, with the exception that the surcharge is levied at a reduced rate of 7-9 per cent for capital equipment for the development of basic primary product indus- tries, for some raw materials, and for certain essential items, such as hides. Many agricultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fu l ly liberalized. Exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to exporters. Payments for other invisibles may be made f rom the remitter's own foreign exchange funds or f rom the foreign exchange accounts 5 The increases in the respective numbers of items over the totals at the end of 1977 are explained in part by the elimination of the fo rmer GDK procedure. YUGOSLAVIA of organizations of associated labor on the basis of self- management agreements w i th in the self-management communities of interest of the republics and autonomous provinces. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international freight and passenger transportation, are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances f rom their foreign exchange accounts for tour- ist travel abroad. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferab le under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and a l imony granted by court order are free ly transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciproc- ity. Authorized banks may sell fore ign currency for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate authorities in the republics and autonomous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic currency, in denom ina t ions of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange w i thout declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other fo rms of economic cooperation with foreign countries, as well as through purchases on the foreign exchange ma rke t, is considered to belong to the particular organizations of associated labor that have taken part in its realization. An organization of asso- ciated labor may keep such foreign exchange in a foreign exchange account, may sell it to an authorized bank, or may use it for its own payments abroad in accordance w i th the existing regulations. In principle, exports are f ree of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic ma rket ( inc lud ing petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain l ives tock ), and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons; and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries w i th which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("accord- ance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities, or for all commodities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global app rova l ). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an unde r tak ing to import f rom such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days f rom the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted. The surrender of these proceeds is not requ ired. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to fo re ign exchange sight-deposit accounts which the 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA exporter ma in ta ins w i th an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may be used subject to se lf-management agreements w i th in the self- manag ing commun i t ies of interest of the ind iv idual republics and autonomous provinces. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days f rom the da te on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and eng ineer ing serv- ices in payments agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for For- eign Trade. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the eco- nomic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs according to se lf-management agreements w i th in the se lf-manag ing commun i t ies of interest. The exchange proceeds are not t rans fe rab le to economic organizations other than those w i th wh ich the recipients are cooperat- ing in techn ical and business ma t ters, but they can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may w i thd raw their balances in the fo rm of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings in fore ign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immed ia te fam i ly; they are not transferab le to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denom ina t ions of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance with the self-management agreements, concluded within the self-management communities of interest for foreign economic relations of the republics and autonomous provinces. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organiza- tions but only through jo int ventures; apart f rom excep- tional cases, such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted up to one half of the jo int venture's foreign currency earnings f rom exports of goods and services. Realized profits by investments in organizations of asso- ciated labor in underdeveloped republics and the Province of Kosovo may be repatriated in fu l l. If the 454 law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a jo int ven tu re would continue to be applied during the entire l ife of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish represen ta t ional offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations w ish ing to participate in fore ign enterprises may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Outward capital transfers by residents who are physical persons are not approved. Gold The Na t ional Bank in 1968 issued certain commemo- ra t ive gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign trav- elers are f ree ly permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugo- slavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the National Bank or to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1978 January 1. Regulations were published concerning the granting of licenses for exports and imports of goods in 1978. January 20. Regulations were published on the orga- nization and operating procedures of the foreign exchange market. January 27. Temporary regulations for 1978 were published setting out guidelines for arranging supple- men ta ry foreign resources (loans and credits) for reali- zation of the agreed development policies. February 17. A new regulation was published con- ce rn ing the business procedures of organizations of associated labor performing capital construction work abroad, inc lud ing the terms of contracts, the disposition ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of foreign exchange earnings, calculation of the costs incurred dur ing the period of construction, and alloca- tion of the receipts. February 17. A regulation was published de term in ing the basic conditions under which domestic persons might enter the foreign financial market for the purpose of extending credit to foreign persons or for arrang ing to receive credits f rom abroad. February 18. A new regulation on long-term coopera- tion with foreign firms came into effect. The regulation widened the scope of long-term cooperation agreements to include research, p lann ing, maintenance, and training. A previous requirement, under the 1973 regulation, that the cooperation should directly contribute to Yugoslav exports was eliminated. February 24. Regulations were published setting out un i fo rm criteria and procedures for basic and other organizations of associated labor and other public legal persons contracting indebtedness abroad in 1978 under Ar t ic le 141 of the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Foreign Credit Relations. February 25. Regulations were published concerning the conduct of large-scale and con t inu ing transactions in foreign t rade (Ar t ic le 8 of the Law on Trade in Goods and Services w i th Foreign Coun t r i e s ). Such transac- tions must cover a period of at least five years and account for more than 50 per cent of the a n n u al volume of business in goods or services of the enterprise involved. March 17. Regulations were published setting out the procedures and measures that the appropr ia te bodies in the republics and autonomous provinces should take if there were to be a dev ia t ion f rom the projected balance of paymen ts performance in 1978. These regulations were based on Article 35 of the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions and Credit Relations w i th For- eign Countries. March 17. A regulation was published on the pro- cedures for t r an s f e r r ing the fore ign exchange holdings of citizens f rom the au tho r ized banks to the national b anks and also for g ran t ing non in teres t-bear ing credit to those authorized banks that deposit fo re ign exchange w i th na t ional banks. March 31. It was announced that in 1978 the min- imum amount of convertible cu r r ent fo re ign currency reserves must correspond to one and a ha lf times the average mon th ly paymen ts in conve r t ib le currencies. April 7. A new law gove rn ing fo re ign inves tment came in to effec t. It permitted fo re ign inves tment in some sectors of the Yugoslav economy that had h i ther to been closed. The Federal Executive Council could permit a j o i nt ven tu re even if it did not d i rec t ly con t r ibu te to Yugoslav exports. The procedures for es tab l ish ing the organizational s t ruc tu re and its fun c t ions were la id down in detail. It was requ ired that the contracts for a jo int ven tu re should state a max imum te rm for the unde r tak- YUGOSLAVIA ing; earnings could be remitted in proportion to the size of the foreign participation (limited as before to up to 49 per cent of capital, although in exceptional cases there was provision for foreign investors to take a greater share) and must be remitted in accordance with the 1978 Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Credit Relations. (Article 134 of this law permitted joint ventures to remit abroad an amount equivalent to 50 per cent of foreign exchange earnings and up to 100 per cent if the venture was in an economically underdeveloped republic or the Province of Kosovo.) May 19. The Law on Customs Duties was adopted, to come in to effect on Ju ly 1, 1978. In the agricultural sector, 66 products, ma in ly products imported from developing countries, would not be subject to duty, while most other agricultural products were subject to duty from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. The average duty for the mineral sector was raised from 4.28 per cent to 6.21 per cent and that on chemicals f rom 7.7 per cent to 9.96 per cent. June 9. A regulation was published on the un i fo rm criteria and the procedures for concluding self- management agreements between basic and other organi- zations of associated labor and other social legal persons when ex tend ing credits abroad in 1978. June 9. The Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia instructed the National Banks of the republics and autonomous provinces to re tu rn to depositors (w i th effect f rom Ju ly 1, 1978) all d inar deposits placed with banks before December 31, 1977 in connection w i th foreign financial credits and fo re ign deposits for imports of raw materials, components, and consumer goods on credit. June 16. Regulations were issued concerning the con- d i t ions under which authorized banks might issue guar- antees on beha lf of foreign persons. Banks authorized to do business w i th fo re ign partners were permitted to issue guarantees, superguaran tees and other forms of wa r ran t ies on account of the fo l low ing categories of fo re ign persons provided tha t, in each case, they met the conditions for cred i twor th iness: ( 1) enterprises abroad who l ly financed by f u n ds of Yugoslav organiza- t ions of associated labor; ( 2) enterprises abroad financed pa r t ly by f u n ds of Yugoslav organizations of associated labor and pa r t ly by f u n ds of fo re ign legal and physical persons; (3) fo re ign legal and physical persons who have invested f u n ds in Yugoslav organizations of asso- ciated labor; (4) fo re ign banks which have granted credits to Yugoslav organ iza t ions of associated labor and other se l f -manag ing organ iza t ions and banks author- ized to do business w i th fo re ign pa r tne rs; and (5) for- eign con t rac to rs ca r ry ing out projects in Yugoslavia. June 23. Impo r ts of c rude oil up to an amount of 8.5 m i l l ion tons in 1978 were exempted f rom customs du t ies when impo r ted f rom specified countries, as fol- lows: 4 .1 m i l l i on tons f r om I raq; 3 .9 m i l l ion tons f rom the U.S.S.R.; 300,000 tons f r om I r a n; and 100,000 tons each f r om Algeria and the L ibyan A rab Jamah i r iya. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA June 23. Regulations were published stipulating that import permits f rom the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade would be required for imports of 86 groups of commodities except in cases where the Secretariat issued global permits to import any of the 86 categories within specified periods (when organizations of associated labor need not request permits) or where the products were already covered by import arrangements from convertible currency areas. June 23. Regulations were published requiring obliga- tory certificates of origin for imports of 53 groups of products. Organizations of associated labor importing these products were required to obtain certificates of origin of the goods f rom the appropriate authorities in the exporting countries; in certain cases, the documents must be certified by Yugoslav consular offices in those countries. Certificates of origin would not be required for imports needed for long-term production ventures with foreign partners, for the purchase of capital goods for investment projects abroad and for the re turn of the goods to Yugoslavia, as well as for imports without pay- ment of equivalent value. July 7. The import by residents of washing machines, dryers, and ironing machines, dishwashers, refr igera tors, television sets, air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, boat engines, and radios and other accoustical devices, the value of which exceeded Din 3,000 must be effected through registered importers. However, workers nor- mally resident abroad but on a temporary visit to Yugoslavia might import such items up to a limit of Din 5,000. August 11. Basic and other organizations of associated labor were permitted to give guarantees and other forms of security for the accounts of their own and joint enterprises abroad. October 13. The total of imports of crude oil was revised upward (see entry for June 23, above). Imports amoun t ing to 10.1 million tons were exempted from customs charges when imported from certain countries: 4.3 million tons f rom Iraq, 4.2 million tons f rom the U.S.S.R., 500,000 tons f rom both Algeria and the Libyan A rab Jamah ir iya, 300,000 tons f rom Iran, and 250,000 tons f rom Nigeria. October 13. The Law on Contracting and Implement- ing International Agreements was published. October 13. The Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation and Joint Financial Organiza- tions was established, with the aim of encouraging long- term production and financial cooperation between Yugoslav and foreign entities including joint activities in their countries. October 13. The Statute of the Yugoslav Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations was pub- lished. Members of the Community (of the republics or the provinces) would take part in the establishment of the Joint Foreign Exchange Policy, in drawing up pro- grams for implementing the Policy, and for promoting foreign economic relations. December 11. A new trade and paymen ts agreement was concluded with Viet Nam which, upon ratification, would provide for settlement of transactions in con- vertible currencies. December 29. A regulation was published concerning the conditions under which funds acquired from foreign financial credits and foreign deposits might be sold on the domestic foreign exchange market. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Zaire is the Zaire, which is pegged to the SDR at SDR 0.7614 = Z 1, corresponding to Z 1.31337 = SDR I.1 Middle rates for the 15 currencies in which authorized banks are permitted to deal2 are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) on the basis of the SDR rate. On December 31, 1978 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 1.006623 per US$ 1. Two mining companies (BRITMOND and MELTAX) receive a preferential exchange rate of Z 3.60 per US$ 1 for their exports of diamonds purchased from small- scale producers. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a commission charge and an exchange control fee. Administration of Control The Bank of Zai're has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to permit the import, export, and transit of goods. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP ), operating under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance, manages the external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is respon- sible for its servicing, and advises the Government on the extension of government guarantees on loans con- tracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. No new external borrowing may be contracted or guar- anteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire.2 Special authorization for the acceptance of another currency may be given only in respect of cur- rencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Pay- ments to nonresidents must be made in the listed cur- rencies. However, certain settlements with Burundi and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled quarterly in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. 1 On J a n u a ry 2, 1979 the zai're was devalued by 34.3 per cent to SDR 0.5 = Z l, or Z2 = SDR 1. 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swed- ish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zaires maintained by residents or to Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, for sales of foreign currency, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authorization from the Bank of Zaire to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited with amoun ts converted from foreign currency at the official rate, transfers f rom another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized payments by residents to nonresi- dents; they may be debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any payments in domestic cur- rency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services. Imports and import Payments Imports are subject to an allocation system (coeffi- cients de preaffectation) which limit each bank's imports of 15 specified consumer goods and pharmaceuticals to 33 per cent of its retained export proceeds. The coeffi- cients for raw materials, intermediate goods, chemical products, spare parts, and utility vehicles are 35 per cent and those for nonpriority items are 5 per cent.3 In addition, unless they have special approval, banks must apply the proceeds f rom invisibles to the impor- tation of nonpriority articles. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics. The importation of speci- fied luxu ry items ( in c lud ing certain automobiles, jewelry, and fu rn i tu r e) is prohibited for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than certain priority items (ma in ly foodstuffs, Pharmaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare p a r t s ), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is prohibited for protective reasons, while import licenses for other items produced domesti- cally, but not in sufficient quantities, are issued spar- ingly. All imports have to be paid for through confirmed 3 Former ly, 2 per cent was reserved for energy impor ts, but these amoun ts are now t r an s f e r r ed to the Bank of Zaire. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE irrevocable letters of credit. For most goods subject to license the importer must obtain a credit of at least 180 days after shipment, while for specified priority items the importer must obtain credit of at least 90 days. Those imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zai're are subject to import declarations, which do not require the approval of the Bank, but the Bank issues a general import and payments license for such items. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found accept- able by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zai'rois de Controle. Applications for import licenses are sent to author- ized banks, which, after certification, forward them to the Bank of Zaire for approval. The import license application is then returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for six months and may be extended for a further six-month period. Imports effected under bilateral arrangements between Zaire and certain countries (Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States) are governed by separate, specific provisions. Imports in general are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem and some are also subject to a turnover tax of 9 per cent. In addition, most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to an import surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized and the Bank of Zaire is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the Bank of Zaire. Payments for invisibles are limited to 25 per cent of each bank's retained merchan- dise export earnings. All payments are subject to author- ization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers, or purchasing agents, or for insur- ance on imports except for imports payable by the time of shipment. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice; in the case of exports, banks are not authorized to vali- date export declarations unless these are marked accord- ingly. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon arrival. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zai- 458 roise. Payments by expatriates for medical treatment abroad require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire which is given upon proper documentation in March and September of each year. All other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the transfer abroad of salaries of foreign nationals is subject to limits. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation have been suspended except where the transfer of such profits is expressly guaranteed by the Investment Code. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency. Zairian nationals traveling abroad on official missions may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the seniority of the traveler. Private travelers may buy foreign exchange up to the equivalent in zaires of BF 30,000 a trip for no more than four trips a year. The export of domestic banknotes and coin is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign means of payment declared upon entry. Certain current payments have been delayed. These arrears also have largely been centralized and the Bank of Zaire is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. All exports other than those by the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAMINES) and certain other specified companies must be made against confirmed letters of credit. Spe- cial provisions apply to the mineral production of GECAMINES, which is marketed exclusively by the Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SOZACOM ). On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAMINES with a provisional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimated value, and with the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is allowed to retain up to 45 per cent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds to the Bank of Zaire. Partial nonfepatriation is also permitted for the metal exports of the Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZ) and diamond exports of the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (M iBA ). For diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a prelimi- nary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the shipment is dispatched. Receipts from agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. Banks are required to surrender to the Bank of Zaire 31.4 per cent of export receipts surrendered to them. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. All exports are subject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad valorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained by the authorized banks. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred during their stay in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guaran- teed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are sub- ject to approval by departmental ordinance. The for- eign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the Bank of Zai're. Producers are required to sell their production to the Bank of Zaire. All newly produced gold is exported. Changes during 1978 January. The special exchange rate granted by the Bank of Zaire for the export of diamonds purchased from small-scale producers was devalued by 24.7 per cent from Z 2.20 per US$1 to Z 2.92 per US$1. March 29. In an effort to facilitate the export of coffee from the eastern provinces, the Bank of Zai're authorized branches of the authorized banks to validate export licenses (Letter No. 9330). April 21. The regime of special foreign currency (RM E) accounts in which exporters could retain for their import needs up to 10 per cent of their export proceeds (w i th the approval of the Bank of Zai're) was abolished. Henceforth, the authorized banks were required to surrender these foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Zai're. ZAIRE May 22. The diamond mining company, MIBA, was granted permission for four years to retain 20 per cent of its export earnings in order to meet its import require- ments for spare parts. July 3. The Bank of Zaire limited to 90 days the deadline for submitting applications for import licenses by the recipients of aid from the European Development Fund, in accordance with Circular No. 151 of Septem- ber 27, 1976 (Letter No. 9584). July 14. With effect from August 1, 1978, commercial banks were authorized to validate import licenses, or register* import declarations, only if the importer pre- sented a certification, valid for four months, that he had paid all taxes and customs duties. The same require- ment also applied to payments for invisibles, except for foreign travel or medical expenses (Letter No. 957). July 21. A simplified procedure was introduced for the processing of imports under the emergency assistance pledged at the June 1978 Brussels conference (Letter No. 1200 /- /BZ /KZ /MMA /- /006830). July 31. The exchange control regime was amended with the issuance of Circular No. 156, as follows: ( 1) The export regime.—With immediate effect, all exports, except those by GECAM INES, had to be effected against confirmed letters of credit. From August 15, 1978, the authorized banks had to surrender 30 per cent of their proceeds from exports of merchandise to the Bank of Zaire; the special surrender requirements of 11 per cent for coffee export proceeds and of 10 per cent for certain other export proceeds (see entry for April 21, above) ceased to apply. (2) The import and invisibles payment regime.—Each bank was required to employ the retained portion of its export proceeds (70 per cent) in the following manner: 33 per cent for essential imports, as listed in Circular No. 156; 35 per cent for raw materials, spare parts, chemicals, transportation vehicles, and intermediate goods for local industry; 2 per cent for energy-related imports; 5 per cent for nonpriority imports; and 25 per cent for essential pay- ments for invisibles, such as expatriate salaries, travel expenses, and other service payments with prior approval f rom the Bank of Zai're. Thus, all import letters of credit would henceforth be covered in foreign exchange with the authorized banks' correspondents through the banks' net foreign assets position and their current export proceeds. (3) Centralization of arrears.—All ou ts tand ing letters of credit which were not covered in foreign exchange at the time the new regulations were issued were to be transferred to the Bank of Zai're as and when they fell due. Also, all documentary commer- cial arrears accumulated between March 1, 1977 and August 15, 1978, and arrears on invisibles authorized under the applicable exchange control regulations, were to be covered in local currency and transferred to the Bank of Zaire by August 30, 1978. (4) Liquidation of centralized arrears.—The Bank of Zaire adopted a monthly program to liquidate the centralized arrears by 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE according priority to particular sectors, and by chrono- logical order. (5) Decentralization.—The Bank of Zaire declared its intention to delegate the power of approval for export licenses to its branches. At the same time, authorized banks' branches could henceforth directly register import declarations (in lieu of applying for licenses) in the case of priority imports (as listed in Circular No. 156), raw materials, spare parts, and other intermediate goods for local industry, except where local production or financing through official credits was available. (6) Receipts from transactions in invisibles.—Banks could retain all such receipts and use them for nonpriority imports. (7) The New Guarantee of the Bank of Zaire was abolished. July 31. The Bank of Zaire requested the authorized banks to surrender the 2 per cent of their retained export proceeds that were earmarked for energy-related imports, thus raising the Bank of Zaire's share of export proceeds to 31.4 per cent. August 12. Letter No. 1185 introduced various modi- fications to Circular No. 156. The effective date for implementing the provisions of Circular No. 156 was postponed from August 15, 1978 to September 1, 1978 and the deadline for the centralization of arrears was extended from August 30, 1978 to September 30, 1978. As part of the new surrender arrangements, the author- ized banks would be required to deposit 20 per cent of their export proceeds with the National Bank of Belgium and 10 per cent with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank of Zaire was prepared to allow author- ized banks to have recourse to suppliers' credits and lines of credit with foreign correspondents provided that such recourse was guaranteed by fu ture export earnings. The Bank of Zaire promised priority settlement of arrears on transactions covered by the New Guarantee of the Bank of Zaire. August 15. The special exchange rate for the export of diamonds purchased from small-scale producers was devalued again by 18.9 per cent from Z 2.92 per US$1 to Z3 .60 per US$1. September 21. Circular No. 158 tightened the pro- cedures for imports without foreign exchange purchase (sans achat de devises—SAD). Henceforth, applica- tions that implied the repayment of a loan and applica- tions for the import of priority items for resale and of luxury items would no longer qualify for the SAD pro- cedure. Raw materials, intermediate goods, and equip- ment for local industry, as well as foodstuffs for factory canteens and nonprohibited items for personal use, remained eligible for the SAD procedure provided that their external source of financing did not give rise to repayment obligations. In addition, items with an f.o.b. value up to Z 500 which were not destined for resale could be brought into the country by travelers as SAD imports. Importers availing themselves of the SAD facility were exempt from the tax payment certification requirement. 460 September 22. Further clarifications with respect to the new exchange regime introduced by Circular No. 156 were issued in the Bank of Zaire's Letter No. 9846, as follows: (1) The export regime.—It was reaffirmed that exports by SODIMIZ were also subject to the letter of credit requirement. Surrender of 30 per cent of all export proceeds had to be effected within 24 hours of receiving advice from correspondents. (2) The import regime.— The requirement of a 6 per cent rebate for imports pay- able at the time of shipment was not affected by Circular No. 156. The requirement that priority imports of spare parts and raw materials must be imported by end-users also remained in force. Imports financed by aid would only require advance approval from the Bank of Zaire if such items were also produced locally and if eventual pay- ment had to be made with official exchange. (3) The use of lines of credit and suppliers' credits would be limited to a bank's capacity to cover repayments without entailing new arrears. (4) Centralization of arrears. —Banks were given ten days to report the amounts of confirmed letters of credit outstanding on September 1,1978 as well as of for- eign exchange receipts expected after September 1, 1978 on the basis of export licenses validated before that date. September 25. Letter No. 1342 instructed the author- ized banks to transfer to the Bank of Zaire by Septem- ber 30, 1978 all letters of credit issued with the New Guarantee of the Bank of Zaire, as well as all arrears on salary, pension, and insurance transfers. October 25. Letter No. 9924 clarified the imple- mentation of Circular No. 156 by announcing that the maturity of letters of credit may not exceed the validity period of the export license, since repatriation must occur within the validity period. All spare parts were to be considered priority items; thus, commercial importers and end-users were eligible to import them. Irrespective of the mode of financing, imports of goods that were also produced domestically would require prior approval from the Bank of Zaire. This require- ment could be waived only for certain imports financed by official aid. Banks were not permitted to use for arrears payments the 5 per cent of their retained export earnings that were earmarked for nonpriority imports. November 1. The zaire was devalued by 10 per cent f rom Z 1 = SDR 1 to Z 1 = SDR 0.9. November 7. The zaire was devalued again by 10 per cent from Z 1 = SDR 0.9 to Z 1 = SDR 0.81. November 16. The Bank of Zaire announced that MIBA could retain 20 per cent of export proceeds in a foreign account. At the same time, MIBA was authorized to maintain in another foreign account the proceeds of loans obtained to import spare parts and equipment (Letter No. 1499). November 27. The zaire was devalued further by 6 per cent from Z 1 = SDR 0.81 to Z 1 = SDR 0.7614. December 1. The ban on the import of beer and mineral water was lifted (Order No. 34/0176 of Novem- ber 21, 1978). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31,1978) Exchange Rate System The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Since July 9, 1976 the middle rate for the kwacha has been maintained in terms of the SDR, and since March 17, 1978 the rate has been fixed at K 1 = SDR 0.976311. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia for the U.S. dollar are based on the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 per cent for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.50 per cent for sales. Author- ized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 per cent on either side for sales and purchases of U.S. dollars and 1.50 per cent for sales and purchases of other currencies when quoting their rates to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in tu rn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is determined by a committee on which the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments f rom residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. Special regu- lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. All per- mitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account earmarked Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars. Proceeds f rom exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts.1 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from resi- dents of Zambia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency by non- residents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allowance for remittances to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which also is blocked. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of certain specified commodities for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, samples, diplo- matic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The two major mining companies and the Ministry of Health are granted priority for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require individual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a half-yearly exchange allocation established by the Minis- try of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. All imports under 1 Authorized banks are requ ired to obtain prior permission of the exchange control au thor i t ies before designating any new External Account except where the account is to be opened for a tem- porary visitor. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA individual licensing are first divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Clas- sification system (SITC) and fu r ther subdivided into end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally, raw materials, intermediate goods for fur ther processing in Zambia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restric- tively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank. Imports f rom South Africa are permissible provided that the importer has obtained a special endorsement on the import license from the Ministry of Commerce. Imports f rom Rhodesia are not normally permitted unless no alternative source of supply is available. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 25 per cent, calculated at 120 per cent of the customs value plus the applicable import duty. Certain import payments are in arrears. The arrears have been cen- tralized and the Bank of Zambia is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as business travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authori- ties. Transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited except in respect of pensions due to residents in that country and school fees of children whose parents are resident in Zambia. Authorized dealers are not permitted to make foreign exchange available for travel to Rhodesia. For other countries, the basic exchange allowance for busi- ness travel is K 55 a day for up to 15 days a person a calendar year; exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding these limits may be granted by the exchange control authori- ties if they are satisfied that exceptional treatment is justified. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 300 an adult for each calendar year. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gen- erally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing contracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 462 branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital or 50 per cent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller.3 Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 per cent of their after-tax profits. A further 10 per cent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract made after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings to the country nominated when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971, and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date, are allowed to remit to their country of domicile one half of their annual earn- ings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; their leave salary, gratuity, and other terminal benefits are trans- ferable only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure and K 5,000 as a subsequent annual allowance. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for family maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain current payments are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, excepting those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agreements with the mining companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. 3 An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount to be t rans fe r red represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations after full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but, with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation must be spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies con- trolled either directly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned f rom these invest- ments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a fam i ly un i t. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a max imum of K 4,000 for a family un i t, are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on depa r tu re, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emi- gration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, com- pensation payments, and terminal benefits up to a max imum of K 8,000 on depar ture, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. In addition, there are special facili- ties for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). ZAMBIA Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1978 January 30. Authorized dealers were required to obtain the prior approval of the exchange control authorities for establishing letters of credit covering import bills of up to 180 days in cases where the aggregate amount of credits and the amount unremitted under all letters of credit established in the past against any overdraft facilities or lines of credit arranged with correspondents abroad exceeded K 10 million. January 31. Authorized dealers were advised that the fac i l i ty enjoyed by foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract, to remit one third of their annual earnings, would not be available to a foreign national who could be regarded as resident in Zambia. This restriction was partly modified on February 1 (see be low). January 31. The debt-equity ratio of 1 to 2 laid down by the exchange control authorities for allowing local borrowings by companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia was changed to 1 to 3. The Bank of Zambia, however, would permit borrowings outside this ratio if the company were engaged in agriculture or in manufac tur ing. January 31. Authorized dealers were advised that the Bank of Zambia would consider allowing remittance of liquidation proceeds of companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia only if the payment were to be made over a period of not less than five years. This requirement was partly modified on February 1 (see below). February 1. Authorized dealers were advised that the power delegated to them for allowing remittances of gratuities, leave pay, and terminal benefits to expatriates at the expiry of a contract, was not to be exercised in respect of foreign nationals who had been availing them- selves of resident allowances but not the facility of rem i t t ing one third of contract earnings. February 1. Applications for the transfer of the pro- ceeds of the sales of companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia, to residents of Zambia, would be considered only if the purchase was spread over a period of more than three years. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA February 1. Residents wishing to remit funds in repayment of loans obtained in foreign countries for the purchase of housing or to meet other requirements prior to migration to Zambia were required to meet such obligations out of the income from those assets. If there was no such income, however, the authorities would consider allowing remittances. February 1. It was announced that with immediate effect all goods to be imported into Zambia, except those falling in the exempted categories, would be subjected to preshipment quality and quantity inspections and price comparisons by a government authorized inspec- tion agency. Authorized dealers were permitted to remit payments under letters of credit or otherwise only when an original "clean report of findings" from the inspection agency was produced. February 3. It was announced that the Bank of Zambia would consider proposals for reinvestment of unremitted profits or dividends arising from past foreign investments in the country if the reinvestment were in the agricultural or manufacturing sectors. Such approved reinvestments would qualify for repatriation of income in the same manner as income from existing foreign investments. March 17. The exchange rate for the kwacha was changed to K 1 = SDR 0.976311. The Bank of Zam- bia's revised buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 0.82949 and K 0.83573, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Zambia also announced that it would make allocations of foreign currencies in settlement of out- standing payment obligations relating to imports and certain personal remittances at the previous rate of exchange. April 18. The exchange control authorities decided to consider applications from established residents employed on a contract, for remittance of one third of current earnings subject to forfeiture of the usual resi- dent allowance. April 28. Business travel allowances were raised from K 50 to K 55 a day; the allowance for medical travel was increased from K 25 to K 27.50 a day up to 25 days; and the education allowance was raised from K 3,500 to K 4,000 a year. October 10. The restriction on remittances to South Africa in excess of K 20,000 in payment for imports was lifted. November 22. Commercial banks were advised that foreign currency allocations made to them by the Bank of Zambia for settlement of past import obligations might be used for clearance of both the principal amount of the import bill and also the accrued interest thereon. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate ma in ta ined w i t h in relatively narrow ma rg ins4 in terms of: («) U.S. do l lar (b) sterling (c) French f ranc (d) Au s t r a l i an do l la r, Portuguese escudo, Sou th A f r ican r a n d, or Span ish peseta (e) a g roup of cu r renc ies ( u n d er mu tu al in t e rv en t ion a r range- ments) (/) a composite of currenc ies (g) a set of ind ica tors 4. Exchange rate not m a i n t a i n ed w i th in re la t ive ly n a r r ow m a r g i ns as in (a)-(g) a b o ve 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all cap i tal t r an s a c t ions and /or some or all inv i s ib les 6. Impo rt rate(s) d i f f e r ent f rom export rate(s) 7. More t h an one ra te for impo r ts 8. More th an one rate for expo r ts 9. Re s t r ic t ions ex ist on p a ym e n ts in respect of cu r r ent t r an s a c t ion s5 10. Restrictions exist on p aym en ts in respect of cap i tal t r an s a c t ions 5-f) 11. Prescription of cu r r en cy 12. Bilateral p aym en ts a r rangemen ts w i th members 13. B i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th nonmembe rs 14. Impo rt su rcha rges 15. Advance impo rt deposits 16. Su r render of export proceeds requ ired A f n a h g i s t n a - .2°Co bfl < - A r n e g i t a n A u s r t a i l a - .2'£ C/5 < ~ B a h a m s a B h a r a i n B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g ^c *5 <U m B o i l v i a B o t s w a n a 'N «J £ 7 ea 3 CO D B u r d n u , i C a m e r n o o C a d a n a <u T3 U a«s U C n e r t a l A i r f n a c E m p r i e -anJ U ^J 6 C h i a n , R b u p e i l c o f C o l o m b i a C o m o r o s 3 - _ - - owo co U _ - - For key and foo tno tes, see page 470. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — — • • • • Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 ao2 03 $ C/3 3 Q. >> (J D n e m a r k - w 3 5 'n - D o m i n i a c 3 - D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r a>> bflrn E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n - 5'£^o W - '£ - T3 C .53"c £ - " r e e n a - co JD c3n - T e h G a m b i a CMo o, (L> & "O*£ c3 Xc <un - 03 C 03 .Cn - G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n D 3 n3 e« c«s oj 0) ^*3n ' D - § 03 >> 3rn - '03m H u d n o r s a bfic 0^ tJQ Co ffi - T3 J D 0 OJ -3c s e n o d n i a c 03 cr 2 "Oc J2"o> - 1 - >> 3 - [ o v r y C s a o t - For key and footnotes, see page 470. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. A r t ic le V I II s ta tus 2. A r t ic le XIV s ta tus 3. Exchange rate m a in t a in ed w i t h in relatively na r row ma rg in s4 in terms of : (a) U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French f ranc (d) Au s t ra l ian do l la r, Po r tuguese escudo, Sou th Afr ican r a n d, or Spanish peseta (e) a g roup of currencies (under m u t u al in t e rv en t ion a r range- ments) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of ind ica to rs 4. Exchange rate not m a in t a in ed w i th in relatively n a r r ow m a rg ins as in (tf)-(g) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all cap i tal transac t ions and /or some or all invisibles 6. Jmpo rt rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for impo r ts 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Res tr ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cu r rent t ransac t ions5 10. Restrictions ex ist on paymen ts in respect of capital t ransac t ions5-6 11. Prescription of cu r rency 12. Bilateral paymen ts arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements w i th nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance impo rt deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required a J m a i a c 0 . - - - - c 03a 03t—t 9 - - - - - C 03 "2o a - - I a - - - 03 O - K u w a t i - - - d | Q "D. o o 03 - L n o n a b e - L s e o t o h L i e b i r a • " - - L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y - M a c s a g a d a r - 03 * D - 03 C/3 >•5 1 - - 1 - 03 - - M u a t i r n a i a - M u a i t i r u s D M x e i o c - M o r o c c o - 1 Z ^ , N e t e h l r d n a s - - - N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e - - N e w Z a e l d n a - - - - N i a c r a u g a | - - 0 - — — For key and foo tno tes, see page 470. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix (Continued) Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 & 2 - .2I - N o r w y a 8 - - 1 - - P k a i s t n a P a n a m a - 1o 1 §£ - - P a r y a u g a 00 3£ h P i l i p p i s e n - o P t r a g u l s03a i i - R o m n a i a - w R a d n a - & oc £ T3 C 03 1 £ O 8 D - S d u a i A r b a i a _ - ! % - S e h c y e l l s e _ - <uGo3 03 § C/3 D S i o p a g n r e _ o S l o m n o s I l d n a 3 s _ - o S m a i l a - 1 < & 3 O C/2 C 'c5 D. C/3 _ - c3 -*fi 03 & - G 03 TJ 3 </5 u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e - d.i & 2 c 03 I T n a z n a i a D T a h l i d n a O H° ~ T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o - - .2 *22"5 oo >>13 9 0 For key and footnotes, see page 470. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • — • — • • • • — • • • — • • • • • • — • • — • — • — • • • • — • — • • • • Analytical Appendix (Concluded) Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems1 (as at date of country survey)2 1. A r t ic le VIII s ta tus 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate m a in t a in ed w i t h in relatively narrow marg ins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French f ranc (d) Au s t ra l ian dollar, Portuguese escudo, Sou th Afr ican r a n d, or Span ish peseta (e) a g roup of currencies (und er mu tu al in te rven t ion a r range- ments) (/) a composite of cu r renc ies (g) a set of ind ica tors 4. Exchange rate not m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in re la t ive ly n a r r ow m a rg ins as in (fl)-(g) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital t ransac t ions and /or some or all inv is ib les 6. Impo rt rate(s) d i f fe rent f rom export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for impo r ts 8. More than one ra te for expo r ts 9. Res t r ic t ions exist on p aym en ts in respect of cu r rent t ransac t ions6 10. Res tr ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal t ran sac t ion s5-6 11. Prescription of cu r rency 12. Bilateral paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th members 13. Bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts w i th nonmembe rs 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance impo rt depos i ts 16. Su r render of export proceeds required «j "§ & - D _ - - - U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e D _ _ - - - - - - - U n t i d e K i o d g n m - - - - - - U n t i d e S t a t s e - - - - - - - - $ 1 <uo,a - - _ - - - - U r y a u g u - - _ - - - V e u z e n e l a - _ - - - - - - - V i e t N a m - D - - - W s e t e r n S a m a o - _ _ - - - - Y e m n e A r b a R p e . - - _ _ - - - - - - a <L> P4 OQ d 1 a a> £ - - _ _ - - - Y o g u s l v a i a - - _ - - £«j N - D _ _ - Z a m b i a - D _ - - - Key and Footnotes • indicates that practice exists. - indicates that practice does not exist. 0 indicates that position is undetermined. D indicates that the composite is the SDR 1 Practices indicated as existing do not neces- sarily app ly to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1978. Where the da te is a d i f fe rent one, th is is indicated in a footnote. 3 C o u n t ry had not yet opted for Article VIII or Article XIV by December 31, 1978. 4 Ma rg ins of approx ima te ly 2.25 per cent either side of par i ty. 5 Restrictions on paymen ts to member countries in the fo rm of quan t i ta t ive limits or u n d ue delay, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 6 Res iden t-owned funds. 7 The import surcharges do not affect any items bound under the GATT nor any items negotiated w i th LAFTA countries. 8 Position on J anu a ry 1, 1979. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 